The Joint Assembly also represents the tribunal before which the countries of Europe and the developing countries defend their common interests.
Allow me, however, to state very clearly that this is a question which really does affect the citizens of Europe in so far as it relates to how their savings are administered, what options there are available, how competition operates between countries in regard to different forms of savings, savers' demand for security, and the opportunities Europe' s citizens have to save wisely for their old age.
There is a degree of independence obviously allocated to the current Financial Controller by the financial regulation.
Moreover, with regard to the protection of coastal areas, which are the main breeding and spawning grounds for many species of fish, we hope for tighter controls, which, in our opinion, should be accompanied by penal sanctions for throwing unwanted catches back into the sea.
We would ask the Council and the Commission for clear and prompt action and a political initiative which does not overlook the issue of human rights.
Legal certainty is something that is essential in such crucial matters.
We think that this is one of the most fundamental issues within the concept of multifunctionality which is now associated with changes in the common agricultural policy, and the EAGGF, of course, has a crucial role to play in this.
FYROM wants to be told here and now that, in principle, accession will be possible when the time is right.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your dedication.
A drop in standards should not be allowed.
UCITS
Mr President of the Commission, our objectives are one and the same: we want a strong Europe in the twenty-first century, a democratic Europe which is able to act.
The new technologies also make it possible to open new markets in traditionally undervalued, non tourist areas, which could develop to become centres of tourism and attract substantial investments.
Members of Parliament must possess the qualities of morality, discipline and discretion over delegated issues innately, and these certainly cannot be imposed on them by anyone else.
Globalisation is not only an economic process, it is also a cultural process, which is why we say: we want partnership in the world, we do not want the clash of civilisations which many are predicting, we want partnership, a meeting, exchange and peace.
In a religious school, it is logical for an exemption to be requested and accepted in order to ensure that the teacher is of the faith to which the religious school in question belongs.
Furthermore, if the courts cannot deal appropriately and expeditiously with the legal workload placed on them, what happens, as Madame Palacio Vallelersundi has already pointed out, is that justice delayed becomes, as we know, justice denied.
Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to commend the rapporteur on her report, which is a meticulous and substantive piece of work.
For that purpose, I propose to amend our initial proposal to provide that rural programmes established by the competent authority must be approved by the Commission. This is to avoid excessive withdrawal periods.
We shall certainly strive in order to do that and I think that the effect over the next few years will start to become apparent.
Two things, and Mrs Theato' s report clearly spells these out.
Granting funds without an economy that can stand on its own two feet is like carrying water to fill up a dry well: there will be enough to drink for a while, but tomorrow the well will be dry again.
But for pity' s sake, and I am not saying this to you in an aggressive way, please do not present appropriations which have previously been earmarked under an unrelated regional policy as aid for victims of the storms.
This is probably linked to the standards mentioned by Mr Van Dam, namely subsidiarity.
Madam President, I should like to draw your attention to a case in which this Parliament has consistently shown an interest.
However, we must remember that, in addition to URBAN, a number of other Community instruments are also available in the social sector: innovative actions under Article 6 of the ESF regulation, pilot projects, particularly the new preparatory action for local commitment to employment that has just been introduced by the European Parliament under the 2000 budget and the EQUAL and INTERREG initiatives and mainstream ESF activities.
Kosovo has suffered far too much from delays in payment.
Let us learn the lessons of the past.
The time has come to move on to a new and crucial phase, namely a phase in which the provisions of the treaties are applied on a daily and binding basis, although we ought not forget that some basic treaties are still to be transposed.
Firstly, I welcome proposal No 1.
These men paid with their lives for their commitment to democracy.
Is this hysteria spontaneous?
Only, as Mrs Cederschiöld pointed out, in the end it does not fully achieve the legal certainty the Council wanted because various shortcomings have not been dealt with. They relate to the minimum rules we are seeking to establish, the minimum rules relating to a punishable offence and in particular the application of the same criminal law norms in all Member States, including those that have not yet introduced the euro but where it could theoretically be counterfeited.
Account will also have to be taken of other programmes where decisions are to be made within the framework of the joint decision-making procedure.
These conditions are binding, however contracting parties may lodge objections within a six-month period.
We are aware of the importance of public opinion when we intervene in matters of foreign and security policy, and I would therefore ask you, in general terms, of course, whether you feel that the reform could tackle any of the following issues: the new, two-level Commission-High Representative structure; a clear, practical distinction between civilian and military crisis management.
I feel that we must clearly safeguard the Community' s interests, its image and its relationship with taxpayers, who are an indispensable and essential part of Community life.
Personally, I prefer the willingness that is clearly flagged up in these agreements to extend the partnership to new agents - local authorities, non-governmental organisations - which seems to me to represent the only possible way the people of these countries can progressively achieve ownership cooperation.
Echelon is one of many examples of this, giving an image of Europe that is quite different to the one we like to envisage here.
Given the need to encourage young farmers to continue in farming it is vitally important that they are well-informed about developments in the common agricultural policy.
Turning now to the most important of our proposed amendments, one of the essential differences is that, in place of a "service provision card plus notification for each individual contract" system, provision is no longer made for being able to request the previous notification from the receiving state for each individual contract.
I also think we should ensure, or ask Member States to ensure, that there is some publicity given to European aid whenever it is used to repair damage caused by natural disasters or accidents.
In fact, the unification of monetary policies and the gradual alignment of other policies imposes additional inflexibility on the different countries in the euro zone by making them behave in ways that are not necessarily suited to their structures and to their respective economic circumstances.
The political crisis which led to the downfall of the Commission earlier this year clearly demonstrated the need for unambiguous and enforceable rules of conduct.
Mr President, Commissioner, firstly, I too would like to congratulate Mr Corrie on the quality of his report, which appropriately reflects the tenor of the debates in the Joint Assembly he so effectively co-chaired.
We are all fully conscious of the importance of tourism, both to local economies and as a factor of European integration.
We are asking workers to be flexible, innovative and ever more productive, yet the fruits of this productivity increasingly benefit the shareholders alone.
I really also want to see the EU pioneer patents on living organisms.
The detailed rules would then follow in that framework proposal.
We look forward to working closely with this House on the finalisation of the reform strategy package and then, most important of all, working together with this House on its implementation continually through the years that will be required on such complexities.
Finally, on the subject of technical assistance, on which your rapporteur and several of you commented. It goes without saying that the Commission will adhere to the terms of Article 23 of the general regulations regarding technical assistance, if it is indeed assistance intended to be an instrument useful to structural policy in general.
In the absence of any corresponding indication from any international judicial body which could justify any personal accusation against Mr Javier Solana - and there is no sign of this whatsoever - the European Union will not of course make any statement at all on this matter.
Firstly on the subject of the URBAN programme and the maximum threshold of fifty towns, which a number of you termed arbitrary.
This is a country that has difficult inter-ethnic problems to deal with at home, and is resolving them with increasing success.
This kind of situation should not be allowed.
At present, the main difficulty in approaching the negotiations seems to be that the Palestinians are insisting that the border issue must be agreed upon first, while the Israeli Government says that it should be settled only if a solution is reached on the issue of settlements and security.
I deeply regret the losses suffered by the Scottish salmon industry.
And those that do pursue such a policy must invest in expansion for the most part and, to a lesser extent, in rationalisation.
In all these respects we must ensure real, significant change, including setting a time limit for the switch to new standards, including the mandatory double hull, on pain of being banned from the ports or the territorial waters of Member States.
Given the advanced state of pollution of water resources, it is important not just to maintain the status quo but to ensure during the vote tomorrow that we achieve genuine quality improvements.
If a request is made for a report on the progress made on cohesion, if a request is made at all, then drafting such a report cannot be very difficult, unless one simply admits that there is no cohesion at all.
I would therefore ask you to study the possibility of applying microcredit policies.
In view of the coming review of the policy in 2002 it is important that we have all possible information, economic as well as biological.
This is an issue that we will no doubt be reconsidering on a number of occasions in the future.
Whether through the minimum wage in Manchester or debt relief in Durban, Labour' s aim of poverty reduction remains the same.
I do not have very long in which to speak, and I really only want to take up two questions.
It also sheds light upon the low level of environmental requirements in some of the applicant States.
For example, it has not been defined.
However, things are really quite different.
So it also has to do with environmental protection.
No, Mr Bourlanges, I think it is a substantive problem.
The Commission acknowledges the fact that Turkey has signed and ratified the convention on nuclear safety and recognises that the responsibility for granting licences and regulating the siting, construction, commissioning, operation and decommissioning of nuclear power plants in Turkey rests entirely with the Turkish Atomic Energy Authority.
President Prodi and Vice-President de Palacio and other colleagues have demonstrated the Commission's practical commitment to that.
In my opinion, this is an issue which belongs to the debate on the enlargement of the European Union and perhaps not to the present debate.
The European Parliament' s opinion on the activities of the ACP-European Union Joint Assembly has always had a major impact, undeniably contributing to a consistent policy and role for the European Union in development and cooperation.
Parliament' s adopting a clear position will be an important contribution to an ambitious, European water policy for the next three decades.
. I wish to put on the official record my concerns with the Lienemann report and also the reasons for my vote.
In addition, you should know that, on 4 June 1998, the Council approved the recommendation for a pan-European type of parking permit to be introduced for people with special needs, the aim of which is to help them travel in all Member States with a common permit so that they can take advantage of all organised parking areas throughout Europe.
ECHO is currently preparing a second decision for a further EUR 2 million This decision will be implemented through UNICEF, Action Contre La Faim, COSV, Nuova Frontera and Vireaid pending, of course, the reception and examination of their final proposals.
The word that is used about them in Chinese society is 'snake-heads' . It seems to me a fitting description of them.
Mr Florenz also raised the question of anonymity.
I believe that it will be possible to find a definitive solution to this question as part of the process of resolving the issue of democratic control of Europol, and that this solution will encourage and reinforce institutional cooperation between all parties involved.
It lasted only five months.
The agreement also attracts criticism with regard to EURODAC.
So let us contact the United States now!
I would remind you of the fact that the Belgian telephone company had to recall employees who had been sent into retirement in order to prevent too much know-how and expertise from disappearing from the company.
The Cunha report on multiannual guidance programmes comes before Parliament on Thursday and contains a proposal in paragraph 6 that a form of quota penalties should be introduced for countries which fail to meet their fleet reduction targets annually.
At Tampere the Heads of State and Government also emphasised the importance of approximating national legislation on conditions for admission and residence of third country nationals based on a shared assessment of the economic and demographic developments in the Member States as well as the situation in the countries of origin.
In some cases, it would probably be desirable for their financial resources to be increased, but there are budgetary restraints of which I am sure you are aware.
That is of great importance in order to turn the EMU into a success, now and in the future.
There must be flexibility also for countries with small budgets.
As I point out in my question, one to two days, and not one to two hours, need to be devoted to the subject.
Until 1993, the way the Commission exercised its executive powers, and in particular the mysterious and even suspect committee arrangements, was creating conflict and mistrust between the institutions, and threatening to have serious consequences on the legislative procedure.
I also regret the fact that we had an extremely short period to work in, as the text was examined in parliamentary committee on 24 November last year and then on 26 January. I further regret the fact that neither the regions, nor the representative regional organisations were involved in framing the programme.
The Boyne Estuary is designated a special protection area under the Wild Birds Directive.
Yet these institutions have other seats and, given that the Community' s actions affect the whole Community territory, there are in fact thousands of courts which could judge officials, Commissioners and so on.
The Greek Government introduced two specific programmes in 1999 as part of its employment policy: "Yes to Work" and "Back to Work" .
The Erika shipwreck is a truly European issue, firstly because it is disfiguring and polluting some of the most beautiful beaches in Europe, with extremely serious consequences for tourism, people who earn their living from the sea and environmentalists, and also because the underlying issue is the regulation and monitoring which ought naturally to be on a European scale.
All we find are vague phrases about 'strategic partnerships' and the new prospects for trade which the complete integration of Europe would apparently bring with it.
We intend to share our more detailed thoughts on the matter with Parliament and Council soon.
In your country, Mr Bonde, like everywhere else, I believe people are keen for the internal market to work properly under the fairest conditions of competition and movement of goods and people.
High levels of confidence are necessary to boost job numbers and competitiveness.
In order to do this, we have created a completely new policy-planning mechanism, a system which will allow the College to set annual policy guidelines and to establish the budgetary procedure on the basis of these, to assign well-defined objectives to the Directorates-General and to keep the relationship between available resources and activities assigned under control, which is of fundamental importance.
What I said and what I explained in a previous answer is that there are civilian targets linked with structures which are objects for military action, and you know as well as I do that some military actions not only go for military targets, but also for civilian targets and structures which are connected with military action.
I would also like to say a few words on Africa, Madam President.
But to believe that this muddle can be autonomous is another matter altogether.
The urban question is so important that we cannot tighten our belts and undervalue it with a programme which has such a small budget.
I would therefore ask the Commission if it would wish to consider continuation of monitoring and for what length of time they might consider monitoring in future to see the long-term effects, not just of depleted uranium weapons but of some of the other effects on the environment that we do know have occurred at least in a localised way within Kosovo?
In other words, we shall be discussing other proposals here in Parliament over the next few months.
With regard to the judicial structure in Kosovo, we have already heard Mr Kouchner, on various occasions, describe the enormous difficulties he is experiencing in setting up administrative machinery and a judicial structure.
When it comes to the demands made on the Intergovernmental Conference agenda, it is the call for there to be clear delimitation of competences that should take centre stage.
I would like to comment on one issue, which was spoken about earlier.
I appreciate and fully support his point on the need for multiple policies and a multi-disciplinary approach and also the need to combat the underlying causes of exclusion which can lead to homelessness and include the problem of drug dependency.
As a result of this, I can confirm that the Commission wholly or in principle approves nine of the fourteen amendments which have been adopted by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
Is this really how we will answer the fundamental questions which are not so much about 'who does what' but more 'what are we doing together' ?
The next point concerns the specific action we have undertaken.
It would be interesting to hear whether the Commission is also prepared to set aside financial resources for those who have disabilities, so that they too might venture further out into the world than merely to where their wheelchairs take them.
It is regrettable that there are organisations and people who are saying nothing or simply regretting the deaths as if they were the result of a road traffic accident.
It naturally has to support these negotiations, sponsored by the United States; contacts have to be increased; the presence of the European Union envoy, Ambassador Moratinos, who has fulfilled his mission with great diligence and efficiency, within the powers of the European Union, is positive.
Yet after the serious dioxin crisis which affected Belgium and other European countries last summer we cannot just view this issue in terms of competition.
Can he tell us how that verification will take place and who will do it?
I live in a region where the ship-building industry now has very serious problems: Asturias.
The second development which we regard as important is the statement made by the Secretary-General of the United Nations at the end of the first day' s discussions to the effect that an overall settlement of the situation would involve recognition of the specific situation of the north of the island.
Can we really continue to leave the Balkans out of the enlargement process, disregarding the fact that Croatia, Macedonia and other countries also have the right to a place in this House that is open to all?
I nevertheless wish to stress the fact that it is quite distressing to see the lack of real interest in this reform.
I have explained the position of the Commission.
He spoke of the task of not isolating Member States but of doing everything to unite them in common European values.
I would like to stress one point in the Viceconte report which I welcome and particularly support, and which I would like the House and the Commission to reflect on before giving a favourable response.
The common position offers an acceptable compromise but its rather delicate and precarious nature somewhat restricts the opportunities for improvement, and puts the whole directive at risk.
Corpus juris is something that was set up without any kind of public debate or public participation.
Responsible citizens should, in my view, have a choice.
Mr President, the only way to guarantee a high-quality universal postal service is to keep this as a public service.
It suggests that the Community directive on European Works Councils must be updated and strengthened.
The lack of concerted action among the 15 Member States themselves and between them and the Community also needs to be addressed.
I have no sympathy for amendments once again backing the TAOs. Criticism of the previous Commission' s work was particularly severe, legitimately so, with regard to these Technical Assistance Offices.
The treaties do not authorise this reaction by the 14 Member States.
In the field of immigration, borders and asylum, the Commission presented a proposal for a regulation on setting up the Eurodac database, and a proposal for a directive on conditions for admitting third country nationals into Member States of the European Union with a view to reuniting families, as part of a vigorous policy of integrating legal residents in the territory of the European Union.
Such a European strategy will be achieved through building on the commitment by Member States and the Commission to cooperate in a number of priority areas: exchange and dissemination of information, notably through new technologies; training in order to upgrade skills, quality of tourist products and sustainable development in tourism.
In any case, it is prevention that I would like to discuss today.
Some people have criticised me over the congratulatory message I sent to Chancellor Schüssel.
The next human rights seminar will be organised by the Portuguese Presidency in May 2000, and, during the last round of the dialogue in October 1999, the Chinese side accepted the European Union' s proposal for technical assistance to support the process of ratifying the United Nations International Pact on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the United Nations' International Pact on Civil and Political Rights, both of which have been signed by the Chinese Government.
Where is the beef?
The Commission' s former president, Jacques Delors, has once again publicly raised the issue of a European Confederation.
He should never have been free because 14 charges of theft, violence and rape had been brought against him, one of which was for the rape of a minor.
In order to reduce disparities between regions, of course.
Calls for design improvements in hull construction, especially double-hulled vessels, are sensible but take time to be implemented throughout the fleet.
Thank you very much for your replies, Mr Barnier.
We have set a figure of USD 180 million; in the United States they are talking about USD 1 billion as a maximum ceiling for covering claims payments.
The Council could not be moved, not even when the precursor programmes Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael finished.
It should not be defended even by those of us who deeply deplore the Milosevic regime.
This damaging situation for employment raises many questions, particularly regarding the information given to the European Works Council, in existence since 1996.
I agree with previous speakers who have said that the polluter should pay, and this proposal expresses that idea very well.
This instrument will fall by the wayside in future.
As Members of the European Parliament, we must have the courage to explain to our governments and people back home that the Commission' s staff resources are not at all adequate for the tasks which have been assigned to it.
Mr President, the Group of the Party of European Socialists in this Parliament agrees with the report that Mr Berend has just presented and congratulates the author, both on the quality of his conclusions and on his flexibility, which ensured that the different groups were able to incorporate amendments in committee.
We are currently working hard to enlarge this to include ever more Member States.
Equally, the scientists will wish to have some input into the legal process or the policy-making process or the law-drafting process, to ensure that the legislation meets the ills that they have identified.
It is for the public, therefore, that we are developing the area of freedom, security and justice.
Regarding the many adjectival descriptions of Europe you addressed in your speech - an energetic Europe, an enterprising Europe, a Europe that has a human face and is inclusive - let me, in a word dear to the heart of my Liberal colleagues, give in one adjective, one description of the kind of Europe we want to see in your plan for governance: an enabling Europe.
Anything else will fall short of the mark and will not help to prevent ecological disasters, such as those which have just come to light in Romania and Hungary, from happening to us.
The debate is closed.
This has also been partly dealt with in the van Hulten report. I think it would be useful if we were to give report figures per category and per sector on how the budget is implemented.
Thank you, Commissioner Monti.
We also need investment to grow at a faster rate.
What right have we to try to impose our model on people whose history, values and identity are sometimes so profoundly different from our own?
And there is no sign of this trend' s being reversed.
This window of opportunity involves combining various factors, one of which - and let us be frank about this - is the nature of the relationship between Turkey and the European Union.
Research is particularly essential with regard also to the EU' s next round of enlargement.
I feel that today' s meeting is not a meeting of Europe, our institutions, with Austria or Mr Haider' s party.
Public opinion and the press nowadays accuse us of being unavailable to give a response, even though we are going to be funding a large proportion of the national operations.
Although the cause was unfortunate, it was certainly not the worst experience of this Parliament.
I understand very well what you are saying and you are right: the European Union should work in a wider context of international cooperation.
Today, the Dineh Indians are facing their final fight for their right to land, for their right to dignity and, above all, for their right to their way of life.
The result may, of course, be some difficult questions of priorities.
I take this to mean that the debate of which I was aware in Scotland is also occurring in Wales.
This is an issue which I expect will be discussed between Parliament and the Commission over the next few weeks and months.
Mr President, I welcome the statement from the Commissioner.
I think that this 25% should not only be enforced but that it should also be ensured that more inspections take place. So this 25% should be increased.
What we are proposing specifically is a unified capital tax, which would make it possible to boost the funds used to support the harmonisation of social protection systems and the reduction of working hours at European level.
The Council has not yet discussed the possibility of introducing a tax on movements of capital as Professor Tobin suggested.
Subject: Granting of export credit guarantees and its implications for the construction of the Ilisu Dam in Turkey The G8 meeting in Cologne called on the OECD to set up a process for the establishment of common standards for the granting of export credits.
Since then the Brussels landscape has changed beyond recognition; a new, reinvigorated Parliament has been elected and a new Commission confirmed in office.
Mr President, High Representative, Commissioner, I have two questions for you, Mr Solana. How, with credibility, are you going to be able to continue promoting closer cooperation on defence and military issues if the Member States are not prepared to comply with common commitments?
Finally, I would like to emphasise that it is also important - and this is one of the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency' s programme - to note the view that it is necessary to recognise the value of development in the European Union' s policies, and in particular in the context of its foreign policy.
We will not achieve concrete results during this stage of negotiations, which is a delicate and sensitive phase, by exploiting tensions.
I should like to have an answer to that question.
That is a shame because it threatens perfectly sensible projects.
Furthermore, he considers that "genetically modified additives shall be clearly identified as such on any label or any document, official or otherwise, which is affixed to or accompanies the additive" .
Producers must pay - although we all know that the consumer will ultimately suffer the consequences of this - and they must take responsibility for the costs before 2006, as some of the amendments propose.
I would like to tell him that communications with Madrid are usually more fluid and, therefore, I hope to see him there soon.
LEADER+ should supplement already existing programmes, avoid overlaps and duplication of financing and thus contribute to a process of development which is as comprehensive as possible.
Many of our amendments relate back to concerns that were also voiced in the Council, and we are attempting to reconcile these concerns with the task that falls to us by dint of extant law and economic good sense.
However, for the economic sector which I represent, i.e. fisheries, this means change.
However, it is true that it does not need a big majority of the scientific community to be able to use the precautionary principle.
Mr President, the four chief objectives which the EU countries' governments endorsed in November of last year and which were mentioned earlier here today were as follows: that care should be taken to ensure that it is worthwhile working and guaranteeing oneself a secure income; that pensions should be guaranteed and pension arrangements made sustainable; that social integration should be promoted; and that sustainable, high-quality health care should be guaranteed.
I would like to remind the House that we adopted an own initiative report on the technical feasibility of trans-European water networks two years ago and I would be most obliged if the European Commission could shortly tell Parliament what action it has taken on that report.
Mr President, every time there is a disaster of this kind people say it must never happen again.
I am not going to mention the length of this report.
The Commission also intends to present specific measures in the field of crime prevention, so as to encourage exchanges of best practice in this area, and in particular the prevention of urban and juvenile delinquency; we further intend to present a legal basis for a programme financed by the Community for this purpose.
That appeared in the communication published last July.
I am delighted to hear the words of support from the Council and the Commission for the UN and the work it is doing in encouraging proximity talks between the two communities to encourage reconciliation and the rebuilding of trust between the two communities in Cyprus.
This is not the first time that this issue has not been given the consideration it deserves. This has been an ongoing concern for the five years that I have been a Member of this Parliament, and I have raised the issue time and time again.
In order to face and solve these problems the Community needs to engage in an effective dialogue with Member States and Parliament.
And because of the programme' s success and its basic approach they will of course at some point then be dropped from LEADER.
Mr President, the report under discussion in the House today is doubtless of great importance.
I refer in particular to the Council and to the inertia of the Member States in implementing the decisions they had jointly made.
What difference does it make to be Basque? Surely it is all the same thing.
The towns concerned estimate that it will be spread over 40 years.
However, the European Court of Justice did not make specific reference to the issue of visa requirements and conditions of residence and consequently the Member States were unable to clarify this issue.
From an Irish perspective, I know that the Irish Department of the Environment is already having consultations with motor industry representatives to ensure that appropriate collection centres are put in place in Ireland in the near future to deal with end-of-life vehicles.
The call for women' s participation in decision making on an equal footing with men is not only a demand for social justice and democracy; it is also essential if women' s experience and knowledge are to be utilised to the full.
Are these reports accurate?
Mr President, in relation to the Schroedter report, I am aware, and have had it confirmed to me by Mr Barnier, that the rules on additionality concerning Structural Funds apply only at the level of Member States and do not apply in a transitive and transparent way inside Member States in favour of self-governing regions such as Wales or Scotland.
It should be put on record, and I want to put it on record today.
Consequently, the Commission has refrained from presenting an amendment. Instead, it has limited itself to focusing its opinions on institutional issues.
In no field of human activity have we ever discovered a zero degree of pollution.
She said that she had received a letter from the Chinese Ambassador, a very amiable and highly intelligent representative and servant of his country, to tell her that she was wrong and the European Parliament was wrong in its attitude on human rights in China.
At a ICCAT meeting in November 1998 in Santiago de Compostela, changes were recommended to the rules relating to the landing of the minimum size of bluefin tuna.
b) Sittings of 1 and 2 March 2000 in Brussels
What I hope is, first, that we in Europe will adopt a common position and stick to it, that we will not allow some to be picked off, that our position will not be based on self-delusion or pretence, that it will be a common position and a sensible position.
The next human rights dialogue will take place on 25 February in Lisbon, and will include seminars on legal issues and on women' s rights, and it is expected that representatives from the academic world and from civil society will take part.
Gradually everyone will be persuaded that women can become involved.
There is another small step, which is related to the recent partial lifting of the embargo decided by our 15 governments for Yugoslavia.
In terms of social protection, I can confirm that we have made proposals about qualified majority or unanimous voting but these are regardless of ideology.
ALTENER will make a valuable contribution to the combined efforts of the Member States.
It is also important to discover what the effects of Union enlargement will be on Structural Funds and the development of the Union' s more remote areas.
The state hand must still be clearly seen to regulate the market and the Commission must act as judge.
In any case, the Babitsky affair warrants one conclusion: the leaders in Moscow cannot possibly maintain that hostage-taking and trading in defenceless citizens is a specifically Chechen crime.
Joint motion for a resolution on the negotiations to form a government in Austria
We need bold change and, at the same time, we must take care to give the greatest possible attention to equal rights for the major and small States.
The EU must not do him an invaluable PR service.
However, I should like to stress INTERREG' s particular importance for the Balkan area, where political developments and hostilities over the past few years have had major economic repercussions for neighbouring countries and especially for my own country, Greece, which is the only Member State on that long-suffering peninsula.
That is why we are actively pursuing the issue of a constitution for the European Union where the distribution of responsibilities is clear for all to see.
We really have not progressed very far.
Therefore, will the Commission state when they intend to propose under Article 7.1 that there is 'the existence of a serious and persistent breach by a Member State of the principles mentioned in Article 6.1.' , and urge the Council acting by qualified majority to suspend certain rights deriving from the application of this Treaty to Austria including the voting rights of the representative of Austria in the Council?
It is for this reason that, despite the many omissions in the text, the provisions set out therein could - and I say could, Mr President - be accepted on condition that they are suitably amended in order to ensure they can be implemented by those responsible for applying the law and are acceptable to the citizens.
The destructive effects of the CAP and EMU on the balance between regions, especially on the vitality of the more rural, the more remote and the least populated regions, is proof positive of the fact that such ambitions are not a sinecure, far from it.
It explains the ground swell of amendments which were tabled by the Committee on the Environment: nearly one hundred amendments for the second reading.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I am confident that this will be tackled in a suitably positive manner under your tutelage.
Mr President, I voted for the resolution and should like to explain my motives.
. As Mrs Wallström explained during yesterday's debate, the Commission is able to accept the following amendments: Amendments Nos 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 13.
This is the position of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and it will therefore have to form part of our future analysis.
Policy so far has been characterised far too much by a process of giving with the one hand and taking away with the other.
Here, in my opinion, the labour market is also considerably burdened by the costs arising to these companies.
This would not be so serious if this region of Europe were not so beset by the problems we are all aware of, problems which are being addressed, but which have not yet been resolved, by the new government of Macedonia. There are the problems of coexistence between the Macedonian majority and the Albanian minority, the connected problems of Kosovo, the notorious economic problems, the problems of being neighbour to a particularly developed mafia in Serbia, and then there is the problem of the Greek veto which must be condemned for what it is.
So we can only applaud the conclusion of a new partnership agreement for development, and personally I am convinced that the work of the last Joint Assembly did have a decisive influence on breaking the deadlock in the negotiations, as did the new climate created by the events at Seattle.
The Union' s economic and social policy is just as much to blame for that as its regional policy.
We are concerned by the deferment of the building of relations with Syria, as well as Mr Barak' s decision to postpone the withdrawal of the Israeli army and the Sharm el­-Sheikh agreements.
The functionalist approach has brought us to this point.
Use of ICT opens a completely new dimension in the context of travel and tourism.
In fact, the revision process has already begun for many bodies and institutions, such as the European Parliament, which in 1998 already issued and adopted a report pointing out all the current problems and deficiencies of the common fisheries policy.
Looking to the future, we know that we are at the beginning of a long process of continuing reform in the European Commission.
The environment is in a parlous state.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Andersson, very warmly on his report on modernising social protection which is now under discussion.
These were the words spoken three hours ago in this Chamber by the President of the Czech Republic, Vaclav Havel.
It must be shown to be a two-way process in which existing EU policies and programmes, which are not clearly justified on the grounds of subsidiarity and proportionality, are devolved and repealed.
If certain countries wish to use the words "former Yugoslavia" , then that is their business; others need not feel obliged to copy them.
Paragraphs 6 and 7 of the agreement confirm that, as a general rule, the European Parliament will adopt its resolution, stating its reasons, at a plenary sitting and has one month to exercise its right of intervention before the Commission adopts the draft implementing measure.
We are unable to draft a common strategy within the international communities or Europe.
It is not easy, indeed I could speak for everybody in my constituency that live in the coastal areas too and say that they are agreed on one thing, that the European Union is the source of all their problems and all their difficulties.
The working document prepared by the Court itself contains alarming information.
As I live in the Sarre-Lor-Lux Sud region of Belgium, I am well aware that the regions are where Europe is being created. They are where we live the European experience on a daily basis and where the people make European construction come alive.
This gives rise to serious malfunctions, because some Community programmes duplicate national programmes, whereas they might have helped other projects about which nothing is done.
What is the situation now as regards efforts to include psychological criteria in this crisis area and provide the best possible support here?
I am of the opinion that these are two important remarks, and that is why I am reiterating them here.
This is due to progressive opening up and greater freedom in the international trade in goods and services and also a greater capacity for adequate movement of capital.
(IT) While Article 158 of the EC Treaty aims to promote the harmonious development of all of the Communities, we must say that the goal of eliminating disparities is still a long way from being fulfilled, or rather in some cases, as with Italy' s Objective 1 zones, paradoxically, disparities are being exacerbated, particularly because of the continuing weak approach of the structural apparatus to Community procedures and the persistent muddle of procedures; despite the changes to the rules, the Community structures have not yet been streamlined.
I was able to talk to Prime Minister Bülent Ecevit about this issue when I visited Ankara myself, and although we are aware of the difficulties and sensitivity associated with Turkey' s particular approach to this question, I believe that there is a window of opportunity that we must not miss.
If no definitions are provided in questions such as this, it can lead to their being dealt with differently around the world, with no uniformity of approach.
We also argued this in November 1999, and we would therefore refer to our explanation of vote of 18 November 1999.
Granted, as you say, that excise duties lie within the prerogative of Member States, nevertheless the use of that prerogative in a way which is unfairly discriminatory against producers in one part of the Community versus others might still conflict with the single market principle.
Fourthly, a point which Mrs Hedkvist Petersen stressed just now, the promotion of an equal opportunities policy for women and young people.
I do not believe that all the national systems of social protection should be made identical.
This European Parliament requires the European Commission to be vigilant of any racist action in Austria, and threatens to suspend Austria from membership of the European Union if this happens.
That is easier said than done - we are still discussing some of the toughest issues.
- (PT) Mrs Lucas, I was not present at the debate you are referring to.
The debate is closed.
I do not think it is simply a matter of a Community charter.
We are creating a common model, but retaining the principle of subsidiarity.
The gruesome escalation of ethnic violence in neighbouring Kosovo did not reach its territory.
The first is the fundamental, central importance that we continue to give to the principle of economic and social cohesion.
It would be unlikely to have much impact on the Chinese authorities and we already have effective channels of communication with the Tibetan community in exile.
Mr President, the priority given to financial and monetary criteria reinforces the increase in inequalities of every shape and form.
Will it be omitted?
Much of this data is confidential, as has also been mentioned, which could affect the competitiveness of the sectors involved and their enterprises.
A man with three children and he was murdered.
In whose interest is it really if European taxpayers' money is used to support economic development in Namibia, and if, at the same time, the economic activity of poor cattle farmers in the same country is drastically undercut by rigorous export subsidies, financed by the same tax payers?
The Council has decided that justice and home affairs policy must form part of the structure of the Union.
This restriction is inadmissible at a time when countless refugees throughout Europe are in a drastic situation, with no protection, forced to work on the black market, and to hide, while so-called democratic governments and state police forces hunt them down.
.
I will end by congratulating Mr Viceconte and, as one who comes from Crete, a tourist area, I ask that we should always view tourism not only in terms of pleasant holidays but as a primary job creator in a Europe which needs those jobs.
If we do not establish improved mechanisms to ensure coherence between national policies, it will certainly be more difficult to deliberate against a background of greater coherence in European Union development policy.
It is not a question of having much tougher regulations, because in many cases the problems concern management. It is not a question of exercising the relevant competences and not referring the big problems of the water systems to the legislative, the complications of which we are all well aware of.
In fact, it took 45 minutes after we arrived before the bus appeared at the airport.
It seems to me that we have finally reached the end of a long period during which a whole raft of treaties appeared and were duly signed.
The importance to the economy of tourism and its growth potential is obviously one.
People will remember that this article, dealing with the transfer of immigration policy to the Community level, stipulated that for five years decisions would still be taken by unanimous vote in the Council and thereafter the Council would assess a potential opportunity to amend the system.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
It damages Parliament.
Mr President, over two months after the wreck of the Erika, pollution of the coasts, which have already been cleaned once, is still continuing.
Several people have lost their lives, many have disappeared, many have been injured.
In the capacity of coordinator of the European People' s Party in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I am very pleased with the compromise which was reached and which Mr Andersson put so much effort into.
I am therefore perfectly aware of this problem.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
Mr Alavanos, I cannot agree with what you just said in your last sentence on Mr Kouchner' s responsibilities, and I would like to make two very important points here. The structure being implemented in Kosovo is under the auspices of the United Nations.
. (SV) Olle Schmidt' s report is an improvement on the Commission' s proposal.
I think that this will have to be monitored closely because otherwise we will end up in that situation against which Mr Meijer has warned us so vehemently, to wit, that vested interests will emerge and that people will think that the money is theirs to spend.
We are also interested in value for the people who work for us.
Finally, we have the problem of the consequences of the expiry of the ECSC Treaty.
I therefore think that this is a great day for European politics to commence.
It can only approve Member States' proposals if they fulfil all the criteria: firstly, integration through sectoral and geographical development partnerships, whereby the employment policy guidelines need to be taken into account; secondly, the systematic involvement of the operators concerned - the local, regional and national authorities, training institutions, universities, NGOs, the two sides of industry and the private sector - with the aim of creating a durable partnership, and thirdly, methods and models of indisputably innovative character.
Profitability at all costs means going against fraternity and against social cohesion.
I saw some of Mr Kinnock's papers today, I heard some of what he had to say.
Does the document you have presented here today also accord with the opinion of your colleagues the Commissioners for Industry, Foreign Trade, Competition and the Internal Market?
If, among other things, as the programme of the Portuguese Presidency stresses as well, the Commission could promote a new phase of social dialogue, focusing on an agreed strategy of socialisation and diffusion of knowledge, in other words, a strategy for employability and the definition of its rules, this would allow us to take a step towards having employees participate in the informed and consensual management of the restructuring and reemployment processes.
It should be noted that the new Commission gave an immediate follow-up to the European Ombudsman decision of 28 July 1999 in his own-initiative inquiry related to the code.
In the system we propose reforming our substantive rules in such a way that most SMEs will be covered by block exemption regulations, as in the field of vertical restraints.
The frontline victims are the producers or freight forwarders banned in the Vendée and Loire-Atlantique regions.
. (PT) We basically agree with the assessment and the thoughts put forward by the rapporteur concerning the sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union.
I do wonder, if Turkey were to bring in a brigade, would we also have to grant it codecision rights concerning that policy?
The major part of it has to do with well known established differences of interest between sexes and so on, and this is the problem.
Otherwise, how will we deal with Communist countries which return to Communism: will we throw them out of the Union too if Communists enter into government, or will Stalin' s grandchildren be forgiven for everything?
I believe that this is actually a good thing.
I therefore intend to amend the guidelines in order to incorporate a specific priority into the transnational strand B: 'integrated cooperation of maritime and island regions' , so as to cover, in what I think is an appropriate fashion the various opportunities for cooperation between these regions.
It is quite logical, it is consistent!
the number and responsibilities of Commissioners
I say that wholeheartedly, but also with the deep conviction that, just as the blockade has produced nothing but poverty and, as a consequence of that, extreme tension and a hardening of the Cuban position, the integration we are supporting here, and the prosperity it will produce, will translate into the détente and openness we all seek and from which all of us, especially the Cuban people, will benefit.
What it comes down to is the competitiveness of the European economy on the world market and the existence of thousands of jobs in the processing industry and offshore fishing.
We seem unable to make a serious contribution to the development of the least developed countries.
Aside from the report, which we welcome, many questions have arisen that still need to be resolved.
A flourishing tourist sector can be totally wiped out by an ecological disaster such as an oil slick.
Both enlargement and the achievements of integration will come under threat unless we can create a system of concentric rings, as proposed by the Group of the European Liberal Democrats and Reform Party.
We need to match this vision with reality.
And that is why we have SOLAS (the International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea) and MARPOL (the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships), two conventions of the International Maritime Organisation which will eventually have to be made mandatory in all Member States of the Union and whose application will have to be monitored.
Women are systematically raped.
As representatives from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, we all come from nations and regions which have never gone out to war with foreign countries, but we always needed to fight those who came to oppress us.
The governments which, through spinelessness or ideology, support you are also responsible.
Indeed the European Parliament must make it its business to uphold this right in hours of need.
Mr Marinos, we are not adopting a purely economic approach to managing the Portuguese Presidency, and therefore, the cultural dimension is, I am sure you will appreciate, one of our main concerns.
It is important that business has legal certainty.
We need to examine national laws in order to check that they comply with the rules of the Basle committee and how the dissemination of these rules can be stepped up.
I urge you to look seriously at this problem.
Allow me also to add that, if the budget is increased, greater demands are obviously going to be made upon the Directorate-General for the Environment if an increased number of projects are going to be dealt with.
However, I believe we must also make the effort to get as close as possible to the people.
Mr President, competition is at the heart of the European internal market policy and is also its driving force.
The coalition which is being created in one of the Member States is clearly an Austrian affair but undoubtedly has a European dimension too.
It is fair to say that the new President, Mr Prodi, and his team are certainly committed to implementing the financial control requirements as laid down by this Parliament.
We only ask one thing of the Commission: that it confine itself to ensuring that the implementation of joint policies does not upset the balance of regional planning in our territories.
As far as Parliament is concerned, it is important for us to waste no time in getting down to a debate on the regulations that are to succeed this state aid code once it has expired.
Can you envisage applying an alcohol - equivalent basis for taxation in Europe?
The Commission is currently carefully reviewing the United States' arguments.
In order to be elected as a local councillor, you just have to want to be elected.
This applies to Amendments Nos 6, 24, 25, 27, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 78, 80, 102 and 104.
The Council - and Mr Luis Amado has said this this morning - has spoken on different occasions of the need for coherence - the last time, it is true, being in November 1999, and also on other occasions, such as the Development Councils of May 1999 and June 1997 - but with no concrete results.
I believe that the political message of this Parliament should consist of something more original than a mere rehash of the neo-classical economic mantra.
This must not, however, be an excuse for subsidising inefficient economic sectors which cause pollution.
Our task is to draft legislation and to monitor to ensure that it is observed.
The debate is closed.
I would first of all like to focus on quality.
We have met the concerns of the ACP states as far as the time-frame of the trade negotiations is concerned.
Firstly, there is the regional approach.
There has therefore been enough time for the Commission to prepare its programme and for us to become familiar with it and explain it to our citizens.
The Commissioner emphasised that what is needed is a very broadly-based political mix, and she specifically mentioned Finland and Sweden.
Thank you. You are right to remind us that a national identity is perfectly compatible with a European identity.
I hope that in the next few hours we will have more information from Commissioner Gil-Robles and, in particular, better news from the Russian authorities.
The one unanimously adopted amendment of the Committee on Regional Policy and Transport, which concerns the timetable for implementing the directive, is something which I would urge you to support.
I am also referring to the erratic management of the import scheme for fruit and vegetables by the EU which is dominating relations between Almería and Morocco. I am also referring to the immigration policy of the regions, Member States and European Union which, due to actions or omissions, is leading to a few territories like Almería having to support this migratory pressure from north-west Africa on their own.
Madam President, on a point of order.
My colleague Jan-Kees Wiebenga, will undoubtedly take this point further because he has already published a report on the same subject matter.
This is why I congratulate Mr Napolitano' s initiative for regular joint consultation between the national parliaments of the Fifteen and the European Parliament.
I recognise that the FEO is located in Dublin and, although I come from that part of the world myself, I have to accept that it is not the centre of Europe!
Some parts of the proposal have been criticised, among them the phasing out of some heavy metals and brominated flame retardants, as well as the application of the principle of making manufacturers responsible for the disposal of electrical and electronic waste.
On the contrary, it should proceed cautiously.
This is the European Union' s declared aim.
It is particularly important for there to be clarity in relation to competition rules in view of EU enlargement.
As for the transnational level of employee involvement there is some indication that at least in one case the companies may have breached transnational information and consultation agreements which they had concluded with their European workforce.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
Mr President, Commissioner, Director-General, I would particularly like to emphasise the following in relation to the von Wogau report: I welcome the Commission' s open-minded endeavours to initiate debate on the hitherto strict procedural rules, and to propose practical reform measures.
Strenuous efforts must be made to root out corruption and waste.
The current state of play - and we would do well to remind ourselves of this again - is that there are in fact judgements from the European Court of Justice relating to employees, I refer in particular to those relating to the Rush Portuguesa case and that of van der Elst.
This type of project complies with the principle of regional cohesion and solidarity, which we have always defended, and, as such, should enjoy the widespread support of the European Union in the context of the promotion of trans-European networks and regional policy (through the Structural Funds).
In fact, Article 86 of the EC Treaty, formerly Article 90, stipulates that services of general economic interest are subject to the rules on competition only insofar as the application of such rules does not obstruct the performance of the particular tasks assigned to them.
That is why I want to highlight some of the issues that I believe the Commission must have at the forefront.
(The President cut the speaker off)
The EQUAL initiative is not restricted to certain groups of people.
The charter will extend to third country nationals in Member States even though certain rights will be reserved to nationals of Member States of the Union.
Firstly, these are immensely complicated and very sensitive legal questions which are at issue and, to my mind, the proposal entails some risks to legal certainty, which have not been fully realised. This is in itself sufficient reason for us to deny our support.
So the Tobin tax can only be effective if there is a sufficient number of industrialised countries which are prepared to participate.
The first relates to the degree of involvement of the Commission.
Of course, it is always better to make more funding available more quickly - and I for one will always advocate this - but I do think that this programme opens up good opportunities for quite a few programmes.
Well, patently, if we do open this debate today, Madam President, as you are requesting and as the Conference of Presidents is requesting, on the basis of Rule 50, we shall then be opening up a fearsome breach in the principle of the freedom and sovereignty of the national states and the free constitution of democratically elected governments, enabling some other majority in this Parliament, at some future time, to claim the right to interfere in the formation of a government even though it has assumed power on the basis of free, regular, peaceful and democratic elections within a Member State.
Over 95% of all HIV infected individuals live in the developing countries and sub-Saharan Africa is the worst affected region in the world.
It regards tourism for senior citizens.
It is also worth noting that International Women' s Day has since been banned in all those countries in which fascism and racism came to power during and between the war years.
In the coming weeks, the Commission will start negotiations with the Spanish authorities with a view to drawing up the Community support framework for the new period of 2000-2006. During these meetings I can assure you that the Commission will obtain the clarifications required on the regional allocation.
On the one hand, it enables farmers to make an informed decision as to whether or not they wish to use such feedingstuffs and, on the other hand, it enables consumers to avoid foodstuffs produced using GMOs.
I would also like to say that the position of the fourteen states emanating from the Council was justified, as in a way this is also a matter of the composition of the government of the European Union, meaning this is also a matter for the Council and not merely an internal affair of Austria' s.
The environment is still the poor relation in the European budget, even though it is primarily an investment.
Economic relationships in the real world adequately demonstrate that eliminating all public intervention in the market does not in any way bring about perfect competition and the optimum distribution of resources.
As you know, like Mr Rack, I come from a transit country, where this issue plays a particularly important role.
How will we judge, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, the five years of our mandate?
I voted for the resolution to adopt an opinion is in favour of convening the IGC. I did so because it sums up the philosophy of the Portuguese Presidency, which is supported by a broad majority in Parliament, of opening up the IGC agenda beyond issues strictly related to redressing the balance of power between Member States, large and small, as was originally stated when the Helsinki Council was convened.
Can anyone argue with any persuasiveness that women are treated equally and fairly, that children have human rights or that people are not discriminated against because of their religion, belief, gender, disability, age, sexual orientation, opinion, political affiliation etc?
I am therefore in favour of the Commission delegating the practical details and implementation of measures to the Member States and regions.
He should find other ways of raising his profile than expressing views on such matters here.
Some of these parties, despite declaring themselves to be republican and democratic, adopt the demagoguery of the extreme right, either out of connivance or as a vote-winning ploy, if only in openly and hypocritically blaming the immigrant workers in our countries for unemployment, and generally making their lives more difficult.
In the course of the coming years I will be continuing the practice I have already started, together with several of my Commission colleagues obviously, of very profound discussions with the administrations of the incoming new Member States.
Now who should pay the costs?
That is why in November 1998 the Commission presented a proposal for a directive on worker information and consultation which has since then received your strong support.
It is therefore only right that the European Union should draw up Community rules on how these nine million vehicles every year are to be recycled and processed.
The human rights policy is also too selective.
We do not want Africa to become our cross, in fact quite the contrary.
It did, however, table a number of amendments, most of which were adopted in the Council' s common position, particularly regarding the need to draw up a questionnaire and statements on the authorisation of some document in the context of the 'specification of the examination arrangements proposed by the examination body' .
You are most welcome.
Why should it be impracticable to set this tax at a rate which does not jeopardise the long-term investments needed by the economy but which finally makes short-term and speculative investments unattractive.
These results will be most important in shaping the Commission' s social programme.
Mr President, the reference to dialogue between the two Cypriot communities under the aegis of the UNO reminds us of the fact that, 26 years after the invasion of the island by the Turkish army, nearly 40% of the territory is still occupied by 35 000 soldiers, heavy weaponry is still being used and over 50 000 colonists are still present, in total violation of the resolutions by the Security Council of the United Nations on this matter.
In our amendments, we have stated the importance of the necessary synergies being produced between the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Fund and Community initiatives, so that their application should be reflected, in the best and most profitable way, by the gradual elimination of disparities between regions and by the creation of jobs which are, when all is said and done, the two central purposes of the funds we are discussing.
We should not allow food safety to be compromised because, in the final analysis, it is our health which is at stake.
I would also like to thank Mrs Terrón i Cusí for having asked the question which has given rise to the first annual debate of this parliamentary term on the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice, and to thank all the Members who, in their various committees, have actively participated in preparing this annual debate. I would also like to thank the representatives of the national parliaments and of civil society.
The proposal also makes provision for Member States to produce such data in aggregated form.
We await the outcome with great interest.
Of course the existing rural post offices also have a strategic advantage, because they are so densely distributed throughout Europe.
Madam President, when the Commission said yesterday morning that it notes the views expressed as a joint statement by fourteen Member States and shares the concern that gave rise to that view, I think it can be taken for granted that since yesterday morning, as soon as the Commission could discuss the issue, it has had a view consistent with that of fourteen of the Member States.
We know that you have an important role in this.
Reconstruction and rehabilitation of southern Lebanon, the only Middle Eastern area with an ongoing military conflict, will also demand considerable efforts. We also need to continue our support for economic reform and social development in Lebanon as a whole.
The fact that they are locked up in Serbia also fuels the unrest and violence in Kosovo.
I therefore welcome with open arms the percentage levels for re-use and recycling which have been proposed by the Council.
All the foreign troops, including therefore the Syrian forces, must withdraw from Lebanon in accordance with Resolution 520 of the United Nations Security Council.
. (SV) Mr President, thank you very much, Mr Sjöstedt, for this question.
I am thinking partly of the forthcoming and important humanitarian, peace-keeping and peace-making tasks.
In essence, FYROM is a miniature version of the former Yugoslavia, regardless of where one or another minority holds supremacy.
Next session of UN Human Rights Commission
If these paragraphs are nonetheless adopted, my Group will abstain from the final vote.
There are poor regions within the Union which need to be given European assistance to improve the fabric of their economies so that they can compete within the European Union structure.
The overriding features of today' s economy are massive mergers and acquisitions involving huge companies with a market monopoly and the emergence of frighteningly powerful multinational groups.
That has never been the intention.
Reading only one sentence which my friend, Mr Vidal-Quadras, has previously mentioned, "The nation is defined by its location, culture and race, locally, ethnically and culturally."
This is an unwise policy.
If you want the full benefits of this directive use your vote to throw out these amendments.
I do not think it appropriate to have to conduct in part the same discussion when Mrs Roth-Behrendt' s report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is featured in the plenary session.
As regards the volume of the next EDF, the EU has made its financial proposal.
On another level, we must ensure that Community and national institutions cooperate and implement an information system to collect and exchange information on counterfeiting.
At the Commission' s proposal and after approximately two years of consultation with social agencies, Member States and the European Parliament, a number of exceptions have been made.
Any analysis of economic development in recent years, if objective, will show, through the figures, that they have no political colour or orientation.
The good status which is required under this proposal ought to guarantee that the demand for surface water of good quality is fulfilled.
- (PT) Without wishing to show any lack of respect towards this House and particularly because of the respect that your questions deserve, I would rather not answer the questions you have raised immediately.
I will willingly accept Madam President' s apologies any time.
In particular, it is believed that counterfeiters will turn their attention to countries outside the euro zone, where people are less familiar with the new currency.
A third decision will be considered in the light of the mission of Commissioner Nielson.
As MEPs are well aware, in the course of last year a joint text was issued by our predecessors in the Commission, Ritt Bjerregaard and Monika Wulf-Mathies concerning the relationship between the Structural Funds, money from the Structural Funds and protection under the Habitats and Birds Directives.
You can therefore rest assured that the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left is committed to seeing that the Union gets on with the tasks in hand.
I am very sceptical about the fact that Commissioner Patten cannot inform us in an equally credible way that he has drafted a prevention plan to stave off further degeneration, underdevelopment and conflicts in Europe and outside.
This can only be detected if controls undertaken are more rigorous.
Europe has managed to stand up to condemn unacceptable events.
In fact, one only need look at the agenda of the IGC: the institutions, enlargement and European defence.
The Portuguese Presidency also attaches importance to reinforcing food safety policy and I think that the Portuguese Foreign Minister and President-in-Office already referred to this aspect this morning.
It is in the area of supply that small business plays an important role and we must not fail to also take account of the interests of those employed in small and medium-sized enterprises.
In the tradition of our continent, this realisation is an important one which merits recognition.
It is not something, I assure you, which I would wish to make a practice of.
I must say that I find this a very good idea that we will probably take up.
The vote will take place tomorrow at noon.
Then, for example, people will think twice before transporting oil in a tanker that is about to fall apart.
You say that environmental considerations must be integrated into all other policy areas.
So it is somewhat upsetting that there is not so much as a mention of this branch of the economy is this paper.
I am not going to give an opinion on any amendment to the Structural Funds Regulation.
I saw Member States working as a team, which was indeed a wonderful experience.
That is dealt with either under special programmes in education, for young people, for women and for exchanges or must be a matter for national policy.
This historic weight of guilt falls on the shoulders of the Conservatives for having consorted with the wolf of their own free will and waiting to be devoured.
That is all to the good.
It is an excellent report.
Not only has he admired Adolf Hitler, praised the Waffen SS, and refused to condemn a terrorist bombing that killed four Roma, but also in Carinthia has been a member of the regional government.
Such a serious issue cannot be limited to a technical debate, even though it is the directive itself which limits the authorisation of antibiotics and other growth promoters.
We do not feel that withdrawing international forces now would be any kind of solution. Quite the contrary, it would be a solution leading to calamity.
Mr Fruteau stated just now that the fruits of growth were distributed inequitably.
What was mentioned concerning sugar in the Caribbean is more complicated.
.
We are discussing last year' s discharge, but also the Commission' s responsibility.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank Mrs Schroedter for an excellent report. She has gone into the issue in some depth and in the committee debate she took account of many of the amendments that have been tabled regarding this report.
These are so-called endocrine disrupters and cause, even in extremely minimal quantities, changes in the gender of animals and even humans, as is more and more being ascertained by scientists.
It does not matter what banner these come under because, in the end, they are all different expressions of the same thing.
We feel it is extremely important for the European Union to play a political role in negotiations which matches its economic aid.
The rationale behind this new approach is also based on the idea that open trade policies combined with social development policies will lead to economic growth and poverty reduction.
This instrument could finance good projects with a higher amount of money than that quoted in the proposed budget.
But the key issue is, in my opinion, planning how to restore water tables, the natural flow of rivers and the natural content of lakes, which must be carried out within the ten year period we have in mind.
The rich areas were those where there were jobs in industry, but today those areas might have become a burden, and they may well be poor, meaning we also have to invest in new sectors of industry such as electronic production, as I might call it, and the production of services, because they are the industries of the future.
On the subject of these two initiatives, then, with the light they cast on future strategic and political thinking regarding regional planning and on future financial perspectives, let me express our great interest in this constructive dialogue with the European Parliament and its committees.
It is not enough just to say, "You, the murderers, please stop the slaughter!"
In Austria' s case, the statements are contradictory to say the least.
Does that not say a lot about management ability?
Incidentally, the French will probably be interested to learn that the Commission is asking for Article 67 of the Amsterdam Treaty to be amended in order to establish majority voting and codecision with the European Parliament.
In 1999, the increase in the means of payment in the world resulted in over-stimulated stock exchanges and an explosion in the volume of transactions, pushing up the prices of long-term financial and real assets.
Subsequently, if I need to ensure that this partnership is disseminated and decentralised, then I will do this.
A subsequent regulation, Regulation 1448, adopted, not by chance, in 1999, permitted certain exemptions, in particular for special cases.
How badly the disaster sets Mozambique back is what we should be looking at now and that depends on the sheer quality and quantity of international relief for that stricken country.
I hope you might discuss this in your political groups so that we can have a better structured session with the Commission on such future occasions.
Thirdly, promoting cooperation between cultural operators.
After all, what will the citizens say if we make a solemn announcement about rights to them but they are unable to take legal action in respect of these rights as individuals?
We have recently heard from the Portuguese Presidency that a serious debate on this proposal will soon be launched.
Even though we have not yet finished constructing all the economic building blocks, we are moving on from that kind of functionalist building of Europe to a much more challenging political perspective.
Questions Nos 48 to 50 will be replied to in writing.
The White Paper represents three to four months of intensive work since the new Commission was appointed last September.
Forgeries are big business.
Indeed, we must say and keep saying that the Erika is one disaster too many.
Obviously, the fact that Parliament has taken its decision so quickly will mean that the March figures can already be calculated on the basis of these new criteria.
. This has been a very interesting general debate about the Balkans as a whole.
So be it. But the 200 grammes that make up the difference will be seized upon by many private and therefore profitable bodies.
We have now tabled a proposed amendment on precisely this compromise with the Commission on the text.
If you do not have a certificate then you are not allowed to operate the vehicle.
This hope is contained in our motion for a resolution. We hope for a fair and balanced agreement based on respect for sovereignties and the right to live securely within safe and recognised borders.
We have tried to reach agreement in advance on a compromise text, in view of the difficulties that arose at the 1999 session of the Third Committee of the United Nations General Assembly, at which the Member States failed to agree on an amendment introducing a reference to Article 2(7) into the draft resolution sponsored by the European Union on the death penalty.
I am certainly not forgetting the economic dimension of this matter, as the timber industry has been devastated and a whole population is suffering the tragic effects of this.
Agenda
Let us not forget that, in 1999, 717,000 people came here to compensate for our low birth rate.
First, because Mr Sakellariou, who is known for his openness and tolerance and whom I shall not quote, vehemently vetoed it in a bid to set himself up as your moral defender.
It would be a precedent which would open the door to all sorts of pressure in many other areas.
In the past, workers were asked to show their solidarity with companies in order to ensure their survival. Now the companies are making huge profits but are also making workers redundant.
The Scottish parliament too recently had a debate with particular reference to the role which post offices, especially in rural areas, play in service provision and the sustainability of rural communities.
The Intergovernmental Conference that is about to begin is important, both in a general sense and more particularly in view of the imminent enlargement.
I was myself a car worker before I was elected.
How can the Union respond to the challenges of global development in a way that the less developed areas can remain a part of that development?
I would just like to point again to the impact on the forestry industry throughout Europe.
But under the influence of the free movement of employees, of the internal market and of the euro, the labour markets are actually beginning to become integrated.
For that reason, I approved these measures, but I should also like to express the hope that there will be particularly rigorous monitoring of water purity at the point where it enters our houses, to ensure that it is of the highest level.
But more especially because, even though at first sight the European market guarantees us improved functioning of the economy, it may also be a source of inequality.
We will make the best use of the resources at the Commission' s disposal, but they are very limited and we have almost exhausted them.
INTERREG could well allow enhancement of such cooperation.
My basic view is that one ought to pay tax in the country in which one lives, in which one' s family lives and in which one benefits from public services.
A great deal of work has been carried out between then and this second reading by numerous Members of the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of Ministers.
Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, not least for being willing to include in the report the suggestions we made.
The universal service will be able to fulfil its social mission only if it retains an area of monopoly enabling it to balance its budget.
This is also the case with the consolidation and financing of the main public and general interest services.
The next item is the debate on the recommendation for second reading (A5-0006/2000), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the common position established by the Council with a view to the adoption of the European Parliament and Council Directive on end-of-life vehicles [8095/1/1999 - C5-0180/1999 - 1997/0194(COD)] (Rapporteur: Mr Florenz)
Mr van Hulten, I think you deserve a medal for your efforts.
Yet, through LEADER, there can be no doubting its effectiveness as an integral part of broader EU and national policy.
The debate is closed.
We citizens of the world cannot afford the current rate of speculation.
Many people now feel if this is federalism you can keep it.
This is an effective, transparent way to proceed and involve all the European institutions and the citizens of Europe.
Finally, I would refer to the South Africa agreement, which the rapporteur also touched upon.
Otherwise it is merely the financial processing, at the expense and to the detriment of European citizens, of the intolerable social situations which result from immigration.
But we shall have a decision very soon.
A word of warning to the latter: this policy needs substantial democratic legitimisation.
Let us beware, too, of worrying the world of business with the legal uncertainty of an unacceptable retroactive application.
You must embark on a dialogue with the international community.
I say this because the ball does not need to be in our court. This issue is in the hands of the governments and the Commission.
The ecological disaster is a major one, possibly unprecedented in scale.
The Commissioners will undertake to respond rapidly to any questions raised.
Yet the trade in used car parts is important, especially for those who collect and renovate older vehicles.
It seems that the key goal there has become the construction and painting of propaganda panels advertising the fact that such and such a project has been co-financed by the European Union.
The third point, which was also rather a sensitive, key issue in the recent crisis, is financial management.
And we must make certain that the details are applicable, appropriate and relevant to the different countries.
But there is one word that I have not heard you mention here tonight.
However, I realise that you asked me here to talk to you more specifically about foreign policy and particularly security policy in Europe since Helsinki.
By allowing branches to be set up and certain services to be provided on a cross-border basis, these organisations will at long last be able to apply the freedoms of the Treaty of Rome, which they have been denied for all these years.
I should like to conclude this presentation, Commissioner, by stressing two things: firstly, a concern of the members of the committee and, secondly, a demand of our committee.
The most important task of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference is to reform the EU before the accession of the new Member States.
The presence of these representatives will not prejudge the final political solution in any way whatsoever.
The situation of certain urban areas is alarming, with the social distress taking the form of unemployment, misery and crime.
This is a limited sector of the economy which creates hardly any jobs and is not competitive on the world scale.
The Portuguese Presidency has highlighted the need for the European Union to combine its highly important international role as the main donor with a leading role - and a more active one - in this movement to reform international development policies, and to create greater scope for coordination, in particular with the United Nations system and the Bretton Woods system.
This worries me because this means that, when adopting texts, we are going to be continually threatened by attack from the World Trade Organisation. This will fundamentally weaken European environmental legislation and particularly this proposal.
I agree with the rapporteur that unfortunately the Commission document contains too little in the way of recommendations to the Member States on simplifying administration, and I support the calls for negotiations to concentrate on promoting a favourable climate for labour-intensive, small and medium-sized enterprises, on setting clear objectives for alternative sources of financing including provisions for risk capital and private financing, and on start-up help for companies including new information technologies and investment in innovative fields.
I know the Commissioner is very keen on information technology.
Mr Milosevic should be appearing before the war crimes tribunal and we should be awarding NATO the Sakharov prize.
I emphasise the word 'could' , and that is if it is done well and with care.
If we can inject a spirit of entrepreneurial activity into our poor and structurally weak regions we will eventually get them back onto the road of attracting substantial investor confidence, which will be the key to future success.
Mr President, I am no friend of Milosevic or his government.
With regard to Cuba' s application for accession to the Lomé Convention, the Commission notes that, according to their recent declaration, the ACP States support Cuba' s application.
In that sense, the issues of judicial cooperation in matters of criminal law are important.
I am terribly sorry, Mr Hänsch and Mr Cox. I did not see you asking to speak.
The recent Helsinki decision to grant Turkey accession country status, even though it has made not the slightest concession over the issue of its occupation of Cyprus, for example, by reducing its military presence there or giving back Ammokhostos, is clearly encouraging Turkey' s intransigence.
Mr Theonas, I can only repeat what I said to Mr Alavanos.
The upshot of this amendment by Parliament would be that funds are allowed, in theory, to invest in OTC instruments and to trade the rights of participation in their funds across the entire internal market.
The rapporteur is now making reference to this and proposes classing Cyprus and Malta under category 7.
As members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, we have followed the creation of that institution and it is clear that it was established for electioneering reasons.
A Europe of 27 States or a Europe of 14, or even fewer?
It is important for us to remember that this is a framework.
This is totally unacceptable.
For this reason, I would like to express my appreciation for the work carried out by Vice-President Marinho.
I am speaking for the first time in this plenary part-session, so this is quite exciting for me, a little like first love, although that did last longer than two minutes.
Tourism must therefore be thought of as the whole range of goods and services required by individuals moving from their habitual place of residence and thus confers mobility, the characteristic feature of contemporary society.
Even the tiniest village has a post office and in future e-commerce will make far more use of the post because many people will order goods by e-mail and through websites and also send bills and so forth by that means. That is why the physical handling of these transactions will also become increasingly important.
Madam President, the importance of transport safety is highlighted on a regular basis in this Parliament and rightly so.
I would like to present the Commission' s conclusion to you without any further ado: it agrees with the conclusions of the draft recommendation and, therefore, with ratification by this Parliament.
As a sign of our political commitment, we must finally show Macedonia in practice that we are indeed rewarding its own welcome regional cooperation by genuinely embarking on regional projects.
Not even Mr Sichrovsky' s web of lies or Mrs Stenzel' s words of appeasement can do anything to change that.
Turning to our development policy, I would say that the global context has changed drastically.
For that reason, in conclusion, I believe we should do something, particularly in the area of harmonisation of laws, not those relating to organised criminal activity, but those concerning punishable activities by the people which are more in the nature of social phenomena.
Only then does it stop being a question of economic usability and start being about people having equal rights to shape their own lives.
The time has also come to demand greater efficiency.
Mr President, the purpose of the present objective ought to be to ensure that the Member States work together to protect groundwater, drinking water and surface water and that the level of protection corresponds to existing EU environmental legislation.
And the Commission should be able to refuse new tasks if it does not also get the extra staff it needs.
The question specifically refers to the relation between excise taxes and the alcohol content of the goods subject to excise tax.
I urge you to support this Europe and to support and help this Austria!
We can be proud of a European competition culture, for it is this that will make the social market economy a reality.
The European Union is an economic powerhouse but we are not in a position to pontificate when it comes to our treatment of refugees.
Over recent years, these basic principles have often been neglected in animal husbandry and in epidemiological matters because of shoddy practice or greed.
For example, we are currently looking into TAOs. This is a key point but, at the same time, we want to abolish temporary staff at the Commission.
For that reason, the uninterrupted flow of assets in massive volumes between the world' s financial centres is not merely speculative activity, which has nothing to do with the real economy.
More specifically, the possibilities for adopting a specific policy by Member States and water boards, which have been set up thanks to the catchment basin approach, need to be maximised.
Yes, Mr Evans, I feel an initiative of the type you have just suggested would be entirely appropriate.
Needless to say, the situation in Mitrovica is very dangerous and we all know why.
The duties that he exercises today have nothing whatsoever to do with the duties that he exercised during his time as Secretary-General of NATO.
In September, we undertook to present a White Paper on reform, and today we are fulfilling that undertaking according to the conditions established in your presence.
I understand where the authors are coming from and I share their views.
Therefore the House was probably quite willing to go ahead at that stage.
For me, that includes the zero demand, i.e. the demand for zero inputs up to 2020.
It is important to follow up and it gives the Member States, as well as the United Nations and the Commission, something to think about when it is a matter concerning military secrets and their effects on the environment.
I also fully endorse his findings, in which, in particular, he suggests increasing the number of consultants for judges at the Court of First Instance and providing the latter with its own translation service.
The international community including the United States of America, Switzerland, South Africa, Ireland, Norway, Denmark, Italy, Sweden and the Netherlands have to date provided substantial assistance.
I hope there has been an interpretation error, and that he will clarify the matter in his follow-up speech.
He stressed a number of points, with which we may indicate our agreement, as many of you did too - the importance of this trans-European cooperation, with its three strands, cross-border, transnational, interregional; the added value to the Community provided by INTERREG, its clarity in relation to the general framework of the structural funds, and the truly cross-border and transnational strengthening of eligible programmes and operations; the importance of common structures and what, in discussing another debate which begins today, the Intergovernmental Conference, I termed the common European spirit which we have to strengthen, and here, with INTERREG, thanks to INTERREG, is a way to strengthen common spirit through common structures for the implementation of programmes with real financial solidarity; the importance of partnership in guaranteeing the active participation of all the local and regional authorities concerned as well as private sector associations and economic and social partners.
And a fully-fledged Europe can compete with the rest of the world and fully rediscover its roots, highlight its common cultural heritage and enhance and restore dignity to cultural and linguistic islands that until now were less well-known.
Society must have the means of enforcing its own agenda on large companies and their owners. The first item on that agenda is the eradication of unemployment.
The recent negotiations are already an important step towards a permanent peace in the Middle East.
As regards derivatives, I consider the position adopted by the committee justified - unlike Mrs Randzio-Plath, for example.
I am sorry it is Commissioner Monti who is here today.
Competition restrictions are to be automatically exempted against the background of this planned system of legal exemption, insofar as the provisions of Article 81(3) of the Treaty on European Union allow.
At the same time, it is, of course, essential to avoid any disturbance of competition conditions or of the markets, hence the importance of regulating such aid.
I congratulate him on his excellent report.
This is particularly important where enlargement is concerned, and legislation and in relation to treaties, which entail changes being made to legislation.
This is environmentally unfriendly but also expensive and does not benefit the consumer either.
Inspections by the maritime authorities and supervision within European ports must also be tightened up.
I would say to Mr Elles that we are most definitely in listening mode.
The fact that we have a European car industry which has already made great strides more than properly compensates for the fact that there are, in fact, a good many cars on European roads for which they must take responsibility.
. Yes, Mr President, that is true.
Thus, when I look at this proposed instrument I do not see a measure to bring two peoples into the fold of Mother Europe.
This condition of accrual is essential since, in my opinion, the principle of nulla poena sine lege, legality in criminal law, must be observed.
Mr President, there is much talk at present of the principle of good governance.
The concept of good agricultural practice has been introduced in amongst the complexity of the current relationships between agriculture, environment and water resources, and between positive and negative effects, and amongst the wide range of local realities and production systems and so on. This concept indicates which agricultural production method to use in order to satisfy the Community expectation of an environmental protection of water resources that surpasses basic standards, along with the subsequent costs and reductions in income.
(Parliament adopted the oral amendment)
And therein lies the paradox.
This is not a clear case of incoherence, it is more a case of a competition between suppliers.
The information provided would then assist the organisation in considering developing and improving stock rebuilding plans.
The Commission has the cynicism to consider wage restraint as a positive factor, whereas in France alone, over three million workers receive a salary that is close to the poverty line and they barely survive any better than the other three million people kept unemployed by an insane economy.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
We have regularly put our criticisms to the Cuban authorities, and this Parliament has done the same.
I shall outline some of the major innovations in the new agreement.
I am looking forward to discussing any further improvements you might wish to suggest under the framework proposal for the legislation, especially after the reference made by Mrs Roth-Behrendt to her own report and opinion on this issue.
I know that if agreement can be reached between Syria and Israel, the Israeli Prime Minister will still face real opposition to any new agreement with Syria in any future referendum.
I am pleased to see the quality of the seventh report on state aid within the EU, and to see that it will henceforth be an annual report, and also that the Directorate-General for Competition will be making information, both general and specific, publicly accessible via its website.
What we are doing today is essentially a nuisance.
I very much appreciate that the report of Mr Di Pietro, whom I salute for the excellent work he has done in such a short period of time, includes the right of defence as one of its main points.
In the lyrical mode of illusion and evasion that they are so fond of, at Sintra, the Fifteen decided to equip themselves with an action force that is 'pretentiously' called autonomous.
The point is to determine at what speed and by what methods the gradual liberalisation of the postal services should take place.
All this is important.
According to UNIFIL, there are now concrete signs that Israel is preparing to withdraw, which is something we welcome.
I would like to place this discussion in a somewhat wider context and examine the link between policy in the field of company mergers within the European Union and policy in other fields.
Do we have a special problem in this regard?
Once again, the Tobin tax is, in my view, at odds with the Treaty of Rome, and this is an important, theoretical objection which has not been considered by any of the speakers this evening.
I will take another look at the issue, although I should point out that having two PHARE programmes up and running risks real confusion.
The desire expressed in Amendments Nos 60 and 93 for a list of goals and a list of substances for which no adequate data is available cannot be approved.
Surely the budget would agree, as prevention is much cheaper than the cost of disasters like these.
First, by promoting a trend towards regional meetings of the Joint Assembly, as recommended in the Corrie report, thereby enabling working methods to be adapted to the new types of cooperation envisaged (regional economic partnership agreements).
Any Community intervention should aim to complement and to harmonise existing guarantees according to the highest common denominator.
Transparency does not mean more access to more paper; to our citizens, transparency means greater clarity at long last as to who takes decisions in Brussels and Strasbourg, when and with what right.
Reform of European competition policy
The time has come, we feel, for in-depth consideration of how to put the Community system of jurisdiction in order and to guarantee a fitting quality of justice.
But we do need to think about how we deal with the substance of the problem.
The first concerns women, gender and women's rights.
Its sole purpose is to pave the way and create the right conditions for cutting public expenditure on social security, and for flexibilising social protection itself.
I think there are three reasons for this: 1) in their endeavour to transcend the nation states, the European institutions have lost touch with the people and, in losing touch with the people, they have become putty in the hands of foreign interests; 2) having lost touch with the people, the men and women working in these institutions have started to become used to reasoning not as the sole champions of the people, but as international officials in charge of regulating a global system; 3) integration may afford economies of scale and productivity gains; but it also causes far more to be lost because, when it breaks nations, it breaks subtle expressions of solidarity and, with them, the willingness to present a united front.
The next item is the Commission statement on the oil slick off the French coast.
The text therefore reads: 'instruments with a high rating base on a recognised rating scale are subject to reliable and verifiable valuation' .
The implementation and operation of the guidelines cannot be left to the personal interpretation of one or other desk officer, either in the Commission or in the civil service.
Address by Mr Vaclav Havel, President of the Czech Republic
It will not do for one type of policy, probably with many exceptions and adaptations, to be applied.
If the new Lomé Convention is simply put into operation, without eradicating all these inconsistencies from the policy, the policy will then be built on shifting sands - to use a biblical expression.
Firstly, there is the question of trying to combat intolerance with intolerance and the long-term consequences of that.
I would like to emphasise the strong political message sent out by the European Council, reaffirming the importance that the Heads of State and Government of the Union attached to a fundamental project, together with various political guidelines and priorities which will turn this area into a reality, following a progressive strategy, within a time-frame of five years, and that, above all, the three components of this area should be in balance: freedom, security and justice.
Turning to the report, we believe that implementing the principle that the cost of water services should be recoverable must never result in additional taxation of the economically weakest strata, or even in the annihilation of small and medium-scale farmers because of the prohibitive cost of water for irrigation.
Quite the opposite, it is still fairly modest in relation to the requirements to be funded.
I do not wish to make any changes to this particular aspect of the compromise.
Let me remind you that the Erika was sailing under a flag of convenience, that of a state applying for membership of the European Union.
These exceptions relate to professions which must be exercised by persons with a genuine professional qualification.
(Parliament adopted the oral amendment)
As a result, smuggling would no longer take place except if products were intrinsically more expensive in one Member State than another.
However, I feel that we should be a little more concerned about the actual direction and outcome of the Community' s regional policy.
Furthermore, it has transpired that research in the ports in Belgium, Finland, but also in Japan has shown that 50% of containers with partially dangerous cargo are not delivered correctly for shipment.
Subject: Environmental problems caused by the Drogheda Port Company development project, and the role of the Court of Auditors A major conflict between environmental conservation and structural development interests has arisen in the area of the Boyne Estuary, Ireland, following a development project of the Drogheda Port Company.
In particular, local authorities and mayors have a direct responsibility to prevent any demonstration of racism or xenophobia, especially when this involves violent and aggressive acts against people and their property.
We will be producing a communication shortly on an issue which this Parliament feels passionately about, that is, how we can ensure that election observation is conducted as comprehensively and sensibly as possible without diminishing the integrity of the institutions which do it.
That, as you have said yourself today, means that you must also identify tasks, policies and programmes which are peripheral or irrelevant to the Commission's main vocation.
Do not forget that, in the case of cars, 80% of environmental impact comes through driving, 1% through recovery and 19% through construction.
The following is a translated extract from his autobiography. 'We are in Europe.
The area where the people in question are now being taken - and this is also the reason for this resolution - is a polluted area which is economically not suitable.
Mr President, the Seattle demonstrators argued that free trade is bad for the less- and least-developed countries, it is purely a rich country selfish interest.
We would like the Commission to make commitments on the amendments we are proposing in regard to this.
All the same, we must not content ourselves with enacting European law to ensure greater safety.
The most discerning decisions are made by the consumers of Europe.
However, it wishes to discuss the question of compensatory measures with respect to improved habitats with the Irish authorities, particularly in the light of the continuing legal challenge in the Irish courts.
Nonetheless, we have confined ourselves in our proposed amendments to bringing the text into line with that of other directives and we have disregarded the question of content.
Subsidies, monopolies and barriers to competition are still impeding markets and development alike.
It is the failure to define this scenario which is causing or encouraging the excesses, accidents and assassinations mentioned by Mr Alavanos.
Europe' s role: we first need to emphasise that Europe rejects war as an instrument for resolving international conflict: only then can we talk of the 'military' role of the Union.
It was not the Commission that presented the present proposal for a regulation but two Member States, Germany and Finland, by means of a joint initiative under the right of initiative which Member States share with the Commission on such issues.
These are difficult subjects, subjects relating to institutional policy and mechanisms which are not always easy to explain.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my report on EQUAL takes the form of an opinion delivered as part of the process of consultation on a new Community initiative, whose objective is to promote transnational cooperation and through it new methods of combating all forms of discrimination and inequalities in connection with the labour market.
These indicators include national parliaments, regional councils and town councils and give a complete picture of the degree of representation of women in every Member State.
Very well, it is a fungicide, it kills off mould.
When Mr Solana last spoke to this Parliament I was highly critical of the fact that he hardly mentioned at all the idea of conflict prevention; and today we have him mentioning quite a lot about conflict prevention, but no proposal whatsoever about taking it on board on a serious way.
Mr Fruteau, we at least need to recognise that there is growth, and that we are not working in a period of stagnation or recession, as has been the case in the past.
I would like to give you a few examples to illustrate these contradictions.
That this subject is of paramount importance is borne out by the huge public attention which the dioxin, antibiotic, sludge and other scandals have attracted.
In particular, we disagree with the proposal on capital requirements because if they are put too high they could actually drive some businesses out of the industry altogether.
If the report is adopted in plenary session, then conciliation proceedings will have to be opened, in accordance with the codecision procedure, in order to solve the problem of the amount of appropriations earmarked for the programme.
Another is clearly for national parliaments and national political parties to find a reinforced role that they can play inside European Union affairs and to share the shouldering of responsibility to build European parliamentary democracy.
I feel that training should be included where it provides relevant information at European level about the CAP.
As far as the second proposal is concerned, I already mentioned that the Commission will take into consideration many amendments.
Of course Austria is a sovereign nation and of course we must respect the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of a Member State.
The situation is badly managed.
We must therefore have considered all possible scenarios so that we can do this job and do it well.
I will say one thing. For many years I was a traitor to my country; at least that was General Franco' s view.
The consequences of this accident have been disastrous for the aquaculture and ostreiculture sectors which were defenceless against the pollution that could not be prevented from coming ashore. These consequences not only stem from the pollution which occurred immediately after the accident but also the subsequent loss of market share and the rejection by the consumer of a fully guaranteed product which is now affected by the pollution itself.
Finally, can I say that the Commission needs to work on its relationships with the public.
Instead, it should leave Member States to develop their own systems, and avoid the tendency to interfere where it is not wanted and can do no good.
Now is the time to devote our time and energy to aiding Cypriots from both sides of the "green line" in finding a solution to a conflict which has lasted for far too long.
This White Paper sets out several areas of concern and proposes the creation of an independent European Food Authority as part of a European strategy to restore consumer confidence.
My group reluctantly accepts it as a step forward.
It promotes mobility, and it opens the doors of culture to the socially disadvantaged and excluded.
This applies to Amendment No 5, excluding section 1; 8 and 9, section 1; 10 and 12, section 3; 15, 16, 20, 22, 24 and 25.
Mr President, I would like to refer, firstly and above all, to the joint resolution which will be laid down to round off this debate. My Group has made a contribution to this resolution and, needless to say, approves of it.
The French State has released funds for compensating damage.
That is why today we are asking not to have any nasty surprises in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism come Monday.
This is why it has been around for years, and it is satisfying that the Commission is being afforded the opportunity this evening to give a response.
They have our full support.
The next item is the report (A5­0030/2000) by Mr Viceconte, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the communication from the Commission: 'Enhancing tourism' s potential for employment - follow-up to the conclusions and recommendations of the High Level Group on Tourism and Employment' [COM(1999)0205 - C5-0112/1999 - 1999/2115(COS)].
It is important to protect the tuna fishery for future generations.
It will also be built on scrupulous respect for fundamental rights and freedoms and on the guarantee of fair trials in particular.
The fundamental question, it seems to me, that faces this Parliament, the Commission and the Council is: What is Europe?
Mr President, this report is positive but, actually, we need more than this.
Imprisonment, torture, the mutilation of young women and so on and so forth, are definitely issues that we could discuss ad infinitum.
No one ever asks in a federal state if all the members of the federation should have their say.
First of all, I would like to say that I agree with the priorities you have identified concerning personal responsibility, Mr Posselt.
Finally, I want to say that the EU is not only concerned with cooperation on trade.
I have always given the rapporteur my backing in this respect.
He recognised that the combined impact of the single market and the single currency that characterise the process of the European Union's construction is intimately linked to a huge amount of new regulations.
We need to gain an insight into what companies are like now.
Since there is great uncertainty surrounding the way in which rules are interpreted, local councils and regions have now started to enlist the services of expensive bureaux. The task of these experts is to gauge to what extent European Commission officials would be prepared to approve plans.
That is why this Parliament has put forward paragraphs 10 and 15 of the resolution, to ensure that Member States cannot ignore any one target group.
As far as this is concerned, the report, albeit a component, may well be the key component of Lisbon, because it is really innovative, while many other things are merely a rumination of what has been said before.
Now, more than 30 years after the inauguration of an unprecedented partnership between north and south, the tool which has proven its worth and served its time needs to be adapted in order to meet new challenges.
I must say that these NATO measures were not taken lightly and were only carried out as a last resort when it became evident that all avenues for reaching a negotiated solution had been exhausted and that the Belgrade authorities were concentrating their forces in order to expel the Kosovo Albanians from their land.
At the end of August 1999, I took part in a meeting of the Committee of the Environment in which it was said that EUR 2 million, or ITL 4 000 billion, should go towards eliminating or, at any rate, reducing smoking.
The Commission does not consider that the amendments would improve the balance without, at the same time, creating tensions.
Coherence, consistency and universally good standards in a decentralised system of financial control are guaranteed by a series of measures.
My second question is different, although it is not unconnected with the previous one.
Is the Commission aware that, in order to lift immunity, it would be necessary to adopt a new legal instrument to regulate the procedure for holding Commission officials accountable, including former and current Commissioners?
Question No 41 by (H-0813/99):
This body was established back in March 1969 and is formally obliged to meet biannually, however the norm is that it meets annually and takes its decisions on the basis of scientific advice.
We could have voted on the 17th of this month and the Conference would not have been able to start on the 14th.
Transport safety has sadly been in the news recently: the Paddington rail crash in London, the terrible rail crash in Norway, the two aviation crashes involving EU citizens and the natural disaster involving the Erika off Brittany - all within the last four months - remind us that transport safety can never be taken for granted and that those charged with protecting the public must be highly motivated and highly qualified.
As you know, the dam will limit the supply of fresh water to Syria and to Iraq in particular.
This is not just about bureaucratic reform, however; rather, it is about showing good will towards the citizens.
Mr President, this is a vital issue for Europe.
One of the reasons for having to ensure that we focus very strongly and sharply on our priorities is to be able to guarantee that we can fulfil that absolutely critical role of being the agents of enlargement to maximum effect.
This is my main concern in this matter.
It is an integral part of the tension, inherent in the very concept of European integration, between solidarity and cooperation between Member States, with a view to creating a better and more efficient environment for the people and the economy, and competition, which should provide incentives to improve the competitiveness and future viability of the European Union as an entity.
Firstly, we are all aware that it is not enough just to improve aid conditions and that there is a need for better coordination with other European Union policies, so that development objectives can be achieved, not merely through aid and support, but also, first and foremost, through a more integrated approach to the various different policies that contribute to the objectives of development.
This second option has won the day and I am pleased about this. However, in the future I hope that the coordination between these two institutions and the Council can be improved so that our work is more understandable and more productive.
It is, after all, only the most serious crimes which would have consequences under criminal law. Ninety per cent of cases would be disciplinary matters concerning negligence or incompetence.
The chain is arranged in such a way as to ensure that it cannot fall as a whole within the competence of one court.
I would now like to say a few words on quantity management.
My task as draftsman of the opinion of the Environment Committee is a very simple one.
Therefore we need to have credibility, coherence and confidence that in working together we can restore the image of the European Union to our citizens.
One in which someone from a modest background can get on in life so as to make life a little easier for his or her children.
Report (A5-0013/2000) by Mr Knörr Borràs, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 3605/93 on the application of the Protocol on the excessive deficit procedure annexed to the Treaty establishing the European Community (COM(1999) 444 - C5-0174/1999 - 1999/0196(CNS))
Scotland as a country is larger than some Member States.
The agreement with Macedonia should partly compensate for the damage which this country incurred following the boycott we instituted against Serbia, which is at no cost to us but costs Serbia' s neighbouring states all the more.
It is good that the procedure exists.
Do you intend to address the citizens via the media as well, that is to say via the television and Internet?
We will see what happens but at the moment that seems to be the case.
In this context, I can, in fact, see the EMU project' s main weakness, for it is true that you cannot act like Superman and raise the European economies from above.
It is too high a price, not only for the Member States already in the Union but also for the states which want to join the Union.
The Europol agreement has now officially entered into force.
Amendment No 12 involves a delay of at least ten years in bringing the provision into force.
I look forward to receipt of that document, which will be taken into account in all further considerations in relation to this issue.
More investments, production and consumption only generate short-lived prosperity.
You are lucky that Mr Böge' s report only deals with this on the sidelines; with my report you will have to justify yourself more thoroughly and you will have more trouble doing so.
The Commission is fully committed to restoring that confidence by putting in place the most up-to-date and effective food safety regime in the world.
As Mr Sterckx said, we certainly need to do this vis-à-vis the United States which, after all, is close to us in terms of democratic values.
I should like to make it quite clear: if the Golan Heights are returned to Syria, the problem in this region will be solved.
It is clear that the justice sector, more than any other, cannot be handled in an inconsistent or contradictory manner.
However, I would also like to add that any analysis, no matter how superficial, inevitably leads us to the conclusion that something - or even a great deal - is amiss with north-south relations, including those between the European Union and the less developed countries.
I believe that this should be applied to all areas, in particular also the budgetary area.
Here in the European Parliament some of the Members do not want the Charter of Rights, which is being discussed at the moment, to become enforceable in law.
If you will pardon me for saying so, Mr Kinnock, what you are proposing is a little like abolishing the police because they were unable to prevent crimes.
Mr President, Minister, Commissioner, "Women are half of heaven" , a successful man once said.
It is nonetheless worth emphasising that, each time we make this type of decision, it is good from a broad environmental perspective and it is beneficial because it creates better prior conditions for exploiting the possibilities of the internal market.
If tradition and culture have to make way for economic imperatives at all, we should at least give sufficient attention to the reception and reintegration of the peoples concerned.
Coincidence or fate has worked to bring together in this part-session both my report and Mr Katiforis' s report on fisheries and the environment. The oral question from our committee on the extremely serious consequences for fisheries of the accident involving the tanker Erika will also be considered tomorrow.
It sustains some 6 500 jobs and generates around EUR 800 million annually.
Questions to Mrs Wallström
We will talk about this on another day.
I should just like to say, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that if I am not here when the Commission responds - not that I have asked any specific questions, but I should nonetheless hope that the Commission has been paying attention - then that is because the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities is meeting to discuss women in the decision-making process at the same time as the present debate is going on.
In the joint resolution, we ask the Council and the Member States to double their efforts to ensure respect for minority groups and to work towards the creation of democratic structures, giving a voice to all those forces which still believe in peaceful coexistence.
We have not heard any information from Mr Solana about what leverage is going to be used in relation to Russia and Chechnya.
I was in Kosovo on 27 October 1998 when the Serbs withdrew.
Competition yes, restrictions in state aid where necessary and where possible.
The initial decision to apply the precautionary principle depends largely on the level of protection sought and the level of risk that decision-makers are prepared to accept for society.
In this sense, I share Commissioner Patten' s positive attitude.
Fortunately, I am on the Committee on Regional Policy.
These are: to make the systems employment-friendly; to make the pensions systems sustainable in the long term; to promote social integration; and to guarantee sustainable, high-quality health and medical care.
Many of them are based upon the very constructive, informal discussions which have taken place between Parliament and the Council in connection with the first reading.
I would just like to make a few comments, after reading the draft opinion and after listening to the speakers on behalf of the various groups.
As people have said, the situation there is extremely volatile.
Mr President, this agreement deals with a sensitive issue: cooperation in the field of criminal law.
Madam President, I want to start by reinforcing the caution that has been expressed by many colleagues here in addressing this five-year plan.
The Swedish Christian Democrats would emphasise the value of the European Union' s and the European Parliament' s concentrating on their basic tasks and not undermining the value of their actions in these areas by also acting in areas outside their jurisdiction.
A communication in June will set out the full proposal for change.
We are therefore talking about harmonising the legal provisions in the individual directives.
This picture in the opinion of your rapporteur has to be set against a background of sluggishness, of growth of only 1.9% per year throughout the 1990s, despite instances of higher growth rates during that decade which we were, however, unable to consolidate.
Could I highlight a few points which have also been touched upon by the Commissioner?
It will be voting against it.
Let our citizens know that our common policies in justice and home affairs are about freedom, not just about repression.
I would like to take the opportunity firstly to congratulate the Commission on unanimously bringing forward this timely and substantial White Paper with the accompanying action plan and I think when the President of the Commission described his Vice-President as acting with intelligence, enthusiasm and energy that indeed that is a fair and valid description with regard to this procedure.
However, I can assure you that we do not, with the existing measures - which you have referred to - reach these severely less-favoured regions.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the second time within the space of four months, we find ourselves debating the restructuring of companies in Europe.
In this context one can also mention the problems of discards of unwanted catches, fishing gear which destroys the seabed and the destruction of natural habitats by over intensive aquacultures.
Employment is growing at a good rate.
And today, as far as you are concerned, I acknowledge your efforts to build a European security and defence policy that is worthy of the name and which has not hitherto existed.
The capitalist world too sends out its pawns in order to gain maximum control over water reservoirs.
However, if some of the amendments are accepted, particularly those presented by the PPE-DE Group, we would consider the report to be stripped of its value and to have become an inconsistent document, lacking in rigour and, in that event, we would reconsider our support.
I believe there are circumstances when the question of principles and institutional regulations is obliterated.
The suspension of the talks between Syria and Israel is not the only delay affecting the peace process in the Middle East.
II. the draft Council decision amending Decision 88/591/ECSC, EEC, Euratom establishing a Court of First Instance of the European Communities (9614/1999 - C5-0167/1999 - 1999/0805(CNS))
Nevertheless, technical assistance is necessary.
I see it as a future task of the EU to contribute in this way to the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises in the ACP states, which can promote self-help.
VOTE (continuation)
Thirdly, we broadly agree on the general guidelines provided they do not deviate from the comments we have made so far.
Today we must give the green light to this conference, and, for its part, the Group of the European People' s Party, Mr President, is ready to give that green light.
The construction of these vessels, the use of double hulls, their age, their control by classification companies, insurance, the creation of databases containing all relevant information, Community cooperation and coordination, the reinforcement of control by inspectors and the liability of carriers and owners of cargoes are all issues which must be tackled. Who better than the European Commission to make serious proposals for European harmonisation in these areas?
As far as specific policies are concerned, I would like to pinpoint just one on which the draft resolution focuses - regional policy.
This goes to show just how topical this subject is.
That is the reason why, while accepting its spirit, we would ask that Amendment No 1 be worded differently - and we have sent a note to Mr Brok in this respect - so that it does not imply conditionality in the provision of Community resources.
The other area of conflict is more difficult.
So, yes, Total Fina must provide the financial resources to contribute to the repair of ecological, economic and social damage and to compensate the people affected by the disaster.
This is what intelligent restructuring is about.
The debate in Geneva, however, is more focused on human rights issues.
Furthermore, future legislation must address the modus operandi of the relationship between the European food authority and the authorities of national Member States, for example the food safety authority in Ireland.
According to the group of the Greens, this gives the car industry ample time to make the necessary preparations.
I shall therefore reserve the right, if you permit, sir, to give you my own opinion, which, to a great extent, matches your own recommendation regarding what action we might take to combat the oil spillage using Objective 2.
For example, my brother-in-law, who lives in Rome, started drawing his pension a year ago and every day since - from seven in the morning when he wakes until midnight - he has checked the TV screen to see how the pensions funds and the securities in which he has invested are performing.
I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that, although there has indeed been an economic disaster, the real ecological catastrophes are still to come.
ACP cooperation is a dynamic process.
Mr President, last week, in the Andalusian town of El Ejido, we saw scenes which were inappropriate to the European Union in the year 2000.
We recognise that there are limitations and the issue will no doubt come back in a few years' time.
Some say that all the costs should be borne by the manufacturers; that this is only right and in the very best interests of the consumer.
Unless anybody thinks that this is merely a nationalistic point, in the Factortame case, in which the British Government was the defendant, it took ten years for the European Court to give a ruling.
The debate is closed.
Madam President, as the representative of the Pensioners' Party, there have been many occasions on which I have stated, at the committee stage, that the European Union must intervene in regulating the lives of the elderly, and in the measures and rules on pensions, as is already the case, in coordination.
They have now got to grips with "EU" .
I would like to know what you could do about this as President-in-Office of the Council at the moment because it is the Council that has been blocking this for a long time.
We are also doing a number of other things: in the European Union-China human rights dialogue, we have focused on a number of practical steps, including sending experts on assignment to Tibet, planning development assistance programmes and activities focusing on health, education and training for Tibetans.
We shall now proceed to the vote.
(ES) Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, as chairman of this Parliament' s Committee on Fisheries, Mr Prodi, you are not making things easy for me at all.
They have laid out for the public to see some of the crucial issues that we are going to have to address in this IGC.
Today the republicans are no longer represented in most local parliaments.
This situation can be achieved over a period of time.
Are we talking about the quality of the distribution networks?
I should like to see our Parliament defend a more ambitious position than the Council' s position, but I should also like that position to be equally credible.
Does this European Parliament support the ecological principle of manufacturer' s liability, that is to say that cars, once they have reached the end of their lives, are the responsibility of the car manufacturer?
Even though I approve of the general guidelines of INTERREG III, I feel it is extremely important to ensure better coordination between this programme, financed by the ERDF, and the other external cooperation funds, including in particular the European Development Fund, intended for ACP countries.
This is why it is essential, as a matter of urgency, for the European Union to undertake a radical review of its directives on sea transport to make them more restrictive and to establish clear and specific regulations determining the responsibilities of the owners of the cargoes.
Commissioner Barnier, you laid great stress in your statement on the importance of dialogue with the citizens of Europe.
But we who sit here in Parliament do not doubt for a second what the reason is.
We therefore, of course, support the European Parliament' s now giving the formal go-ahead to the Intergovernmental Conference.
I have one observation, not a criticism, to make regarding Commissioner Prodi's statement this morning and that is that it was a little weak on the actual content of economic policy.
Ever since we signed this protocol in Montreal, we nonetheless have international recognition and a common definition written into a protocol dealing with the environment, health and trade.
We have a quite exciting debate in front of us.
I should also like to say that my Group shall remain vigilant and committed, in collaboration with the grass-roots action groups, to ensuring that the parties affected receive compensation as soon as possible and that legislation is strengthened at every level, supported by realistic penalties in the event of non-compliance.
They will be told that they are too expensive, without drawing any comparison with other social services such as police and health services but also sports and cultural services, where lack of profitability is scarcely admitted in urban areas.
Mr Byrne, we fail to understand why the Commission is not approximating the text on genetically-modified organisms as part of its harmonisation work.
Mr President, Mrs Karamanou' s question is an extremely serious one, and I would not wish to conceal that fact.
Under those conditions, then, there has been a real failure.
This report contains 34 conclusions, including 15 calls to the Commission to adopt specific measures and actions without forgetting the environmental dimension and cultural protection, particularly in outermost and island regions.
Mr President, the postal sector continues to be an area in which old, outdated monopolies are allowed to operate regardless of the requirements of competition.
If the price of enlargement is the watering-down or even the break-up of the present Union, then it must not be paid.
My group welcomes the fact that the union movement and environmental movement are expressly given their own roles to play, as their input in society is important in our view.
As far as French planning experts are concerned, for example, the most probable scenario today is that of the entrenchment of regional disparities within each country.
I hope that this Community initiative will help serve as an example on how to resolve the problems faced by the elderly in cities.
There is a contradiction in terms - unanimity principle, codecision procedure, and Conciliation Committee - and it is one we must resolve if we want to strengthen, and not further weaken the principles of cultural policy that are to create a European consciousness.
The main merit of the text of this communication is therefore the fact that it exists.
The position taken by the presidency has shown that it is aware of this tragedy for civilisation.
Since there has been great involvement and concern about how technical assistance is to be provided, we must say that external offices will be used.
Seven, to make it possible for these funds to be used in the event of an environmental emergency: for example, in reforestation following storm damage, or restoration of the natural environment following an oil slick, etc.
Today about EUR 9.5 billion of previous EDF resources are uncommitted.
And this is true even when it addresses the issue of enlargement.
All the same, a Europe with 25 members will be wanting a European tax on income, if not on profits, or the tax on CO2 to finance the budget for 2025.
Women, who constitute more than half of the population, are heavily under-represented within political, economic and social fields.
I would request you to pass this complaint on to the Bureau of Parliament.
So if we want to look into what causes exchange rate instability, then we need to take into account the elements of good governance and focus on these first.
Another subject being discussed is the release of the Albanians held in prisons, particularly Flora Brovina, a woman of extraordinary humanity whom I met, together with the Women in Black of Belgrade, during joint attempts to build bridges between women from different ethnic groups.
I am not one of the people who agrees that there is a vast lack of trust.
The second comment is that we need to persuade the political leaders.
I believe that it will be good to start this dialogue with young people who are motivated.
They are very important in this case.
But the Commission and Council must know that there are many people in this House who have reservations about the Eurodac system, for example.
Of course we have pondered this issue, and we are still studying it extremely carefully, and this is also thanks to the concerns you have voiced.
Certainly those who fear for their livelihood are at a complete loss.
Mr President, the economic situation of the European Union from the viewpoint of the workers is eighteen million unemployed people, it is the generalisation of insecurity, of low wages, of deteriorating working conditions.
The people of Europe have a right to expect their representatives to keep the public interest separate from private profit, but they can only be sure that this is being done in all cases if the information is both publicly available and easily accessible.
In my country - I live in the north of Spain -, there is a considerable difference between the north and the south, and difficulties arise when we have to transfer water from one place to another.
One of the most important innovations provided by the Treaty of Amsterdam was to clarify the basic principles which represent the shared heritage of the Member States. Another innovation was the establishment of a mechanism which would monitor whether these principles are being fulfilled, and which would react if any of them were violated.
Increasing penal sanctions against counterfeiting of the euro
The question is whether the Union can remain indifferent to the formation of a government in a Member State which includes such a party.
I hope that this will be of benefit.
I would like to thank Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
The Commission, in its proposals to the forthcoming intergovernmental conference, has indicated that its preference lies in seeing smaller Member States lose their automatic right to nominate a member of the European Commission.
In the UK the local index of deprivation is a very good example of a widely used standard and statistic to help determine not only EU but national and regional assistance programmes.
Framework conditions are indispensable when it comes to preventing abuses, monopolies law being one example.
Everyone can be what they want to be because, if Ireland and Britain are both in the European Union, there is no point in killing each other for being Irish or British.
Europe must be modernised, made more entrepreneurial in spirit and adapted in such a way that it becomes a more competitive environment for consumers and companies.
In my judgement, this constitutes a guarantee to both sides, both from a political and a financial point of view, of the commitment they can expect from the European Union in terms of its contribution to the cost of the peace which we all long for.
I wish to put two questions to the Commissioner.
The reason why we have such crippling unemployment rates in Europe is that it is too difficult in many cases to employ people because of the red tape and the regulation and the inflexibility of the labour markets.
Indeed this disaster involving the Erika, like that of the Russian vessel in Turkey, moreover, is unacceptable and intolerable at a time when the ultimate hi-tech technology is available.
The torrent of confusion and rash actions that has been unleashed over Austria has blown things out of all proportion. It has caused considerable distress to decent citizens and evokes risks that had previously not even been considered.
And finally, what do you most need at these next summits?
They are much less interested in a government which takes no interest in these affairs.
For example, Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 4.
It is important to identify the skills and potential of our regions in the hi-tech sector.
This is why we cannot subscribe to either the opinion of the European Parliament or indeed to that of the Commission, which both wish to widen this agenda far too much and, what is more, widen it in the wrong direction, i.e. moving towards centralisation and an ever tighter European system.
I also agree with the criticism that no emphasis has been put on the implementation of Article 82, especially when we are witnessing abusive conduct in a context of market concentration.
Certainly not a fair one! There are always people who are in a position to reject everything and there we are on the other side, begging for a little more money for culture.
This week we will be holding a debate here on the safety of sea transport, in light of the Erika disaster, and in the course of this year we will have to discuss our objectives in terms of the safety of air transport.
The first question concerns the training of this rapid intervention force of 60 000 men, which, as you have said, is likely to be deployed to perform peace-keeping and peace-building missions and be capable of maintaining them on a long-term basis, if necessary.
Question No 9 by (H-0044/00):
They fly in the face of the very principles on which - as Mr Havel said yesterday - the European Union was founded: principles of liberty, democracy and respect for human rights.
We need, at the end of the day, to ensure that we end up with a sensible, balanced policy of real improvements at a reasonable cost.
We can achieve this long-term objective by developing measures with demanding standards.
Finally, we need some coordination of national maritime authorities in order to achieve some sort of European facility comparable to the coastguards who supervise the coasts of the United States.
This requires coherent behaviour, yet local leaders of the Popular Party are throwing more fuel on the raging fire and boycotting the attempts of other institutions to put this out.
These figures are from before the Internet revolution took off.
I have asked all the Commissioners - and I shall ask them once again in a still more analytical way - to pinpoint all the activities that we can forgo.
- (SV) The most important task of the approaching Intergovernmental Conference is to reform the EU before the accession of the new Member States.
The European Parliament needs to acquire the resources, which it currently lacks, to ensure efficient monitoring of implementing measures, and the Commission must accept that some of its practices need reorganising to provide proper information to Parliament and ensure that control can be effective.
I would also like to say that the Commission is prepared and ready to hold this debate whenever it is convenient and that we were ready to do so this week as we had agreed originally, on the basis that it would be presented the day before in a speech to parliamentary groups.
In many areas the parks which are a fundamental element in the LIFE programme have been established.
I would ask you to take on board local indicators to help us do that.
What did I understand on reading the related texts?
Mr President, the Israeli author, Amos Oz, managed to capture very aptly the icy atmosphere at the negotiating table between the Israelis and Syrians recently.
On 1 January 2002 the euro will be in circulation.
It is all the more unacceptable for such a thing to occur twenty years after the Amoco Cadiz disaster, despite our saying at the time and many times since, "Never again!"
Secondly, as already mentioned by my colleague, Mr Mulder, the ELDR is of the opinion that the European Parliament should also be investigated by independent experts.
I referred to the directive which the Commission has proposed on compulsory arrangements for means of public transport, so that people with special needs can use them.
The relevant standards which have been laid down in another Directive, 95/35/EC, seem sufficiently adequate to advise people in a responsible manner on the organisation of the transport of dangerous goods.
Bankruptcy procedures
I will mention only two, in order to be brief.
. (SV) I cannot support the present resolution because, in paragraph 8, an individual factory in Italy is singled out with the express wish that precisely this establishment should remain in place, while the current management is being advised to try to sell the factory to a European tyre manufacturer.
These are my three questions.
As regards taxation, state aid, the Structural Funds and defending our traditional products, practical measures characterised by daring and ambition must be planned as a matter of urgency.
Mr President, I would like to begin by emphasising, first of all, the timing and the topicality of this debate on the devastating floods in Mozambique.
May I just remind you once again of our request for an amendment to the 1976 directive which has been watered down and misapplied with regard to the equal treatment of self-employed people, including assistant spouses.
The danger is too great for us to ignore.
It is clear that a radical overhaul of the Commission is long overdue.
The foodstuffs legislation in the European Union is the most ambitious in the world.
I would say to Mr Bourlanges and to those who have raised this issue, that this is not the fundamental problem, although we recognise it totally.
The Commission has recognised this interrelatedness.
(The Minutes were adopted)
As of now, it is illegal to land or sell bluefin of zero age and that of course is - in weight terms - less than 1.8 kilos.
Kosovo Albanians and Serb deserters are being refused refugee status, whereas Pinochet is calmly escaping prosecution.
We must have more equality between our ACP partners and our European members and I want to get rid of the "them and us" syndrome.
We understand the context of this essential debate.
It must be a 'development round' , in which developing countries, effectively excluded from previous rounds, are fully included.
Galicia and Brittany now have the common ground of having suffered from oil slicks.
It has destroyed an entire ecosystem in a matter of days.
We attached particular importance to linking the creation of new jobs for disadvantaged and excluded people in the social sector, in tourism and in small and medium-sized enterprises with promoting the establishment of new small and medium-sized businesses bearing in mind the necessary economic structural change.
They have managed to clear tracks from the villages to the wells, they have managed to clear tracks from villages to the primary schools.
The second way is to recreate a law ex nihilo, that is to say, to harmonise the systems and completely overhaul all the concepts and legal systems in each of the Member States.
Each year, there are between 8 and 9 million vehicles scrapped within the European Union. This in itself generates a large amount of waste.
I think Commissioner Patten understands that too.
I hope you will help us.
The agreement was that 1 800 OSCE observers should arrive to guarantee the peace.
I would point out to the Commissioner that Mr Aznar is the President of the Spanish Government.
If the Member States decide, in agreement with ourselves, that 25% of ships are to be monitored on the basis of port state control, then they must also make the necessary personnel available.
In my opinion, though, the state should not and must not use coercion to interfere in the internal affairs of political parties, at the risk of jeopardising democracy itself.
I would also like to point out to Commissioner Liikanen that it is not easy to take a matter to a national court.
Where this aspect is concerned, we cannot accept any weakening of the Council' s position regarding the date from which the regulations are to come into force.
We do not, in principle, oppose this industry.
Subject: Turkish blockade of Armenia Given that the European Union is actively promoting social, economic and political relations with Armenia through the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement, signed on 12 October 1999, what steps is the Council taking to persuade the Turkish Government to lift the economic blockade of Armenia?
I can only reiterate my appeal to the Council and the Commission to stick to the rules.
Secondly, we will need to set efficient mechanisms in place to prevent disputes, and the White Paper sets out mechanisms for information and consultation.
They must revise the directives in order to guarantee the participation of workers in these negotiations. They must revise the directive on collective redundancies, reduce the working day, link European subsidies to a clear commitment to maintain employment and include social and labour clauses in the international agreements signed by the European Union.
So, I would ask Mr Solana to explain to this House the position of the European Union in relation to Chechnya.
This strategy, which took shape in the Stability Pact adopted on 10 June 1999 in Cologne, considers south-east Europe as a whole, but simultaneously recognises the diversity and unequal development of the various countries that compose the region.
I am committed to try to create a balance in all these issues and I would mention the achievement of the trade development and cooperation agreement with South Africa.
It is all too easy to get carried away by the obvious need to improve the effectiveness of criminal investigations.
A multiannual budget of the Commission later on in the year, may give a decisive answer regarding credits for the coming years.
It should not be in the amendment.
Finally, I would like to mention technical assistance.
Firstly, let me make a statement of fact: the fruits of growth are not distributed equitably within the Union.
The new regulation for cross-border services will doubtless improve both the functioning of the internal market and the competitiveness and power to act of enterprises.
How do they see the currently dominant species - that is us?
However, an environmental Europe cannot, in any circumstances, be built at different speeds, but must be built from a point of view of solidarity.
The ACP-EU agreements make a mockery of democratic principles and the fight against corruption, by sparing those who are responsible: when will sanctions and controls be imposed on Total-Elf, which is supplying those responsible for the civil war in the Congo?
I would also like to congratulate the services of the Commission, since the evaluation, control and monitoring of the LIFE programme provide a reasonable guarantee with regard to the selection and execution of projects.
The Commission cannot, on the other hand, approve Amendment No 19, in which hazardous substances are defined differently than in OSPAR.
One factor behind these developments that has been referred to in this debate is competition - competition between Member States on the cost of the production of food.
What establishes a recognised minority?
Finally, and in conclusion, Mr President, with the expiry of the ECSC Treaty, the regulations will have to be reviewed since I think that the aid system will have to continue beyond 2002, and in that case I am in favour of a Council regulation which will ensure security in this area.
I hope that the Commission will not forget that.
In this context, account ought to be taken of the smaller groups, and consideration given to introducing more representative arrangements.
Deviating from the Council' s common position, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is also attempting to restrict further the facilities for the transfer of water.
We are therefore concerned to see the flurry of Commission announcements in recent weeks by Commissioner Kinnock suggesting policy proposals of various kinds to be put in a White Paper shortly.
Three reasons and they are as follows: on account of the economic importance of third-country workers in the EU, in the interests of the competitiveness of enterprises and the proper functioning of the internal market.
This is important, but so is enforcement and there are, of course, a number of reasons why we need to pay particular attention to this.
Allow me now to comment on some of the areas in a little more detail.
The next item is the report (A5-0010/2000) by Mrs Ahern, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European and Council decision adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of energy efficiency - SAVE (C5-0334/1999 - 1997/0371(COD)).
Our rapporteur' s criticisms on this point have also therefore been heeded.
Like the whole of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I have therefore voted against the proposal to amend Directive No 1 and have abstained from voting on the proposal to amend Directive No 2.
Yes, Mrs Schroedter, I shall be pleased to look into the facts of this case when I have received your letter.
Could you give us an initial reaction to this initiative, without compromising the more detailed reaction which you may be able to give us in the Foreign Affairs Committee?
Mr President, Commissioner, I rise to express the warmth and optimism with which the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party welcomes the start of negotiations with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
It is very important that we include liability in that process.
The perfect illustration of this crippling flaw lies in the opening sentence of the Commission communication.
Until recently, the European countries fixed, it could be said in an autarkic way, the rules governing the functioning and financing of the two markets.
But there is a definite commitment to change the status quo which is totally unacceptable.
Two years ago, in Cavalese in Italy, an American aeroplane from the Aviano NATO base cut through the cables of a cable car during a low-flying exercise which exceeded safe limits, causing the deaths of more than 20 Europeans.
People react by voting with their feet and go where they can earn a crust.
That is where we really get into difficulty.
. I sense some degree of frustration in many of the contributions to this debate.
Our responsibility as members of the European Parliament is to ensure that the process of enlargement takes place in an climate of optimum openness and transparency so that, when the time comes, the citizens of the European Union and the citizens of the Czech Republic will approve the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union through their elected representatives.
There is no backbone, and no teeth.
The approach that we have been following in these discussions, and our participation in them, essentially turns on taking advantage of a certain desire to alleviate the tensions that exist, based on a conviction - which appears to be widely shared - that it is necessary to continue to negotiate, and that continuing negotiations and maintaining their impetus also give rise to hopes that a definitive solution can be found.
I cannot see a reason, therefore, why a further extension for this measure should be proposed.
I think we need to retain it.
Finally, I should like to thank Mr Poettering because I believe that the Belgian initiatives, as we say in common parlance, are getting a bit much.
However, the main concern remains ...
Amendment No 35 cannot be accepted because legally, it cannot command any authority.
Mr President, Commissioner, following close scrutiny of this report one cannot escape the conclusion that it was possible to fulfil the stated objective of the structural policy only in part.
But, and I would like to stress this, this policy must also be accompanied by a coherent and convincing policy to promote employment and prevent social exclusion because unemployment, marginalisation and growing inequality are the best breeding grounds for anti-European, nationalistic actions and reactions.
Should this be condemned ecologically, Frau Breyer?
It is not much fun, of course, having to discuss transparency and intergovernmental conferences with yourself.
There are different views on this.
The collection, sorting, transportation and delivery of mail will take on an entirely new dimension.
The partnership between the European Union and the ACP was negotiated in the difficult time of the changeover to the new millennium.
- (SV) We have voted in favour of the common resolution in order to express our solidarity with all those who are exposed to xenophobia and racism.
Indeed, the time has come to resolve a central problem for global stability.
Secondly, when deciding which areas must be subsidised, we must concentrate efforts on integrated projects.
There was a lack of clarity at precisely the point at which you put the question to me.
We need, in the ancient and mediaeval tradition of Europe, to go back to the natural order of the universe, i.e. to the Creation, and beyond that still further, to the Creator' s intention.
I support Mrs Lienemann' s firm stance.
The only guarantee has been to seek prior favourable approval, through individual cases, which will take more than six or eight months to resolve, an excessively long period, which simply leads to problems of a lack of flexibility, affecting the generation of wealth and employment.
The objections of the industry in this matter are certainly not without foundation.
In October 1999, following the success of LEADER I and LEADER II, the Commission decided to extend the initiative.
Mr van Hulten, my Group of the Greens and regionalists will support the attempts in tomorrow afternoon' s plenary meeting to embellish this report.
I would like to congratulate you on what is referred to in German parliamentary-speak, inappropriately in your case, as a maiden speech.
We debate these issues intensively and seriously and we should be entitled to expect likewise from the Commission, even where it is merely submitting a paper.
Having said this, the EU' s responsibility, which is both yours and ours, is to try and move beyond the provisional nature of Resolution 1244 and devise a future scenario for the whole region.
But there was some misunderstanding, for they did receive a letter from somebody else that they felt gave them permission.
Nor do I think that motorcycles should be included, as the distinctive culture of recycling within the motorcycle industry obviates the need for a European directive in this area.
Via the structural funds, a great deal of the European budget is being pumped around the system.
Additionally, European observers will need to be admitted to the trials against the journalists.
This poses enormous challenges for competition policy, which I hope it will be able to meet because, for certain, many of those mergers are going to be designed to protect profit margins of the businesses from competition rather than merely to enhance productivity and make those businesses able to operate on a bigger scale.
I am pleased to see that the Commission shares our view.
Most democratic parliaments in the free world reject it on principle unless there is overwhelming public interest, which clearly there is not in this case.
Which citizens will it cover (those of the European Union or the citizens of all European countries with a view to enlargement? Will it cover immigrants etc.?)
The Commission approves Amendment No 76 to the effect that radioactive substances are explicitly to be included in the proposal.
What we have to do, and we in the European Union are already doing it, is to guarantee Mr Kouchner all the necessary resources, and you are right, Mr Rübig, we have a duty to our citizens to explain to them regularly and openly whether or not these resources are being properly used.
In particular, the Commission is aware of the public concerns about the recorded seismic activity in the area of the Ecemis fault line located in the vicinity of the proposed plant site.
This brings me to my second point, namely the snail as symbol of our postal services.
Is Israel prepared to comply with the UN' s resolutions and, in exchange for peace and security, hand back the Arab areas which were conquered in 1967?
So, ladies and gentlemen, I should like in a moment to return to the role and structure of the guidelines before mentioning the principal comments and criticisms that you, Mrs Schroedter, and the various Members of this House, have made.
Mr President, Commissioner, the measures contained in this directive range from drafting water management plans, comprehensive information and hearing rights, and close cooperation between the Member States, to combating water pollution caused by individual pollutants.
That formula enabled us to oblige applicants to put on the label the fact that genetic modification techniques have been used in the product, the subject matter of the application.
It is, in fact, something very positive.
The economic growth on which you pride yourself only benefits a fortunate minority, the owners and shareholders of the large industrial and banking groups.
We should make a good deal of progress if the Commission were to adopt, as binding regulations, the ombudsman' s proposal of a code of conduct for good administrative practice.
Most of the technical issues have been resolved.
It is a miracle that they were saved.
In that event we would not have moved forward, but rather backwards, in the application of competition policy in the Union.
- (PT) Mrs McKenna, a large part of the problem you have raised relates to issues which are the responsibility of the Commission.
In particular, would the Commission look favourably on a change in the rules to ensure that additionality operates not only at the level of Member States but also within Member States, with regard to budgetary provisions between central government and internally autonomous regions or countries?
If competition policy is to be made subordinate to the aims of social and environmental policy, real efficiency and economic growth will remain just a dream.
I just want to ensure that there is no ambiguity.
That simply amounts to acknowledging their inferiority.
Within these regions, a huge range of problems have their part to play.
You know that voting by roll call or electronic checking only takes place if Members of the House request it.
Where it falls short, what is missing, is transposition in the Member States and monitoring.
The two Treaties explicitly permit the Community to become a party to the Treaties and to play an important role in managing them.
But if we look into how to achieve this, the opinions are greatly divided.
As forcefully underlined by this report, labelling is an absolute necessity so that each farmer on his holding is aware of all the ingredients in the feed which he is giving his livestock.
Firstly, we must show the Commission, the Council and the Member States that this House cannot and will not forget about this serious incident.
Anyone travelling to Strasbourg by car or by rail would have been able to see for themselves that storms raged in Alsace as well.
Firstly, at the beginning of 1999, NATO, with the participation of most Member States of the European Union, flattened Kosovo with bombs in the name of freedom.
Clearly we are awaiting this reform from the Commission, we are awaiting the proposals which the Commission is going to make to us and this Parliament will have to express its opinion on them.
We have 1.27% of the Community' s GDP.
There is no point in second-guessing or trying to second-guess our intentions.
A legal basis would mean we would avoid having to draw on the Structural Funds, as was the case in the past, to obtain some loose change.
Bearing in mind that the first television programmes from earth are now 50 light years out into space way beyond the nearest stars, I invite you to imagine with me what life out there in the stars thinks of us as they look at us.
. Mr President, we had an extremely useful debate on human rights yesterday.
Thank you for the presentation.
An ad hoc directive should therefore be demanded from the European Parliament and the Council.
Every time, just as the exchange was about to take place, we found men missing from the meticulously drawn up lists.
SAVE
This Regulation was adopted just last year in Berlin and I will be applying it for the next seven years.
So, yes to liberalisation, but let us also think about the limits to liberalisation, rapidly create reasonable conditions in Europe and submit the appropriate study to the Commission.
We consider it is unacceptable against Serb and Roma minorities as it was against the Kosovar Albanians in the past.
It is barely six months since Amsterdam imposed a duty on our two organisations to work together; we have been sizing each other up, we have had a few minor spats, but we need to work effectively together.
As an Austrian, I still have a vivid memory, as, I believe, we all do, of the catastrophe which cost so many human lives last year in the Tauern Tunnel, where subsequent work to rebuild the parts of the tunnel which had been destroyed in this fire continued for many months at huge expense.
And the best way to help developing countries help themselves is to open up world markets to allow them to sell their products.
Finally, and in order to respond to the concerns which you have expressed in this House, particularly yourself, Mrs Schroedter, in these guidelines we recall the importance and the definition of integrated strategies, for development or redevelopment, which, of all the priorities, offer the maximum opportunity to synergy, to the measures undertaken and to the establishment of a decentralised partnership. You expressed some concern about what might look like a lack of reference to this partnership, yet there is a clear reference to it on page 5 of the guidelines.
I feel that this behaviour, particularly in your presence, is unacceptable and totally repugnant, especially when we are on the point of an electoral campaign.
It is an excellent opportunity for this Parliament to introduce far-reaching reforms to these plans.
Prime ministers, members of parliament, ministers, in the professional arena, doctors, lawyers, pilots, generals.
I will not expand further. We will have the opportunity to do so on other occasions.
There must not be any repetition of cases of parallel projects on both sides of a border.
The preparation of this framework directive is therefore prompted by a desire for rationalisation.
We all know that so far the Council has dragged its feet with regard to follow-up regulations of this kind.
We have talked a lot about what it is to be Basque, but a Basque today dresses like a Dane and reads the same things as a British person.
Let me remind you, Mr Wurtz, that we shall be seeing Mr Prodi tomorrow. He is going to make a statement on the Commission' s programme.
The goal of the Commission' s notification of June 1999, on which the Andersson report is based, is to reinforce cooperation between the Member States and the EU in terms of social protection.
While we have a number of months to the end of April to debate the issue and garner our views, I recognise fully that this is also a very tight timeframe.
Madam President, the Commission is today presenting its strategic objectives for 2000-2005. These are contained in an extremely general document in which all the problems have been glossed over to prevent any conflict.
In the same way it is somewhat ironic that we are hindering the possibility of sharing this commodity, which is scarce in some areas, while regions where there is abundant water are giving advice on austerity with regard to its use, to those who live in drought areas.
I know that some people say we must have a better way of pressing our concern about human rights than through tabling resolutions.
Mr President, we are currently in the first phase of transposition of Directive 97/67/CE on postal services and I am terribly afraid that a new phase of liberalisation might be reflected in a significant reduction in the public service offered.
Only a broadly based agreement makes any sense in practice.
However, the Commission will be suspending its position, given the intrinsically high risks of these investments compared to the more traditional financial instruments.
Regulations on nationality and the integration of people from third countries are still outstanding.
This report signals very clearly the most effective way to do that, because Europe has to wake up.
The Commission must define what its fundamental activities are, what it must concentrate on and shed its non-essential activities, thereby freeing up new resources and ensuring a more correct and co-operative relationship with individual countries, regions and local communities.
We have large gaps in what we are arguing for, in principle, in relation to human rights.
I am also very pleased that you have mentioned Mozambique today, and in this context, and that a major humanitarian effort can be made using the resources in question.
Nevertheless, I would like to say that any interpretation of Article 255 of the Treaty must also be linked to the principle of subsidiarity.
Therefore, Madam President, the Union and the Assembly must send an unequivocal message, rejecting of the tiger of intolerance, xenophobia and totalitarianism, so as not to add one more mistake to the long list of abdications, renunciations and opportunism which mark Europe' s past and for which we have paid such a heavy price.
The Dineh Indians are being moved like pawns and, in that way, lose not only their past and the land which is so extremely important to them - the land of their forefathers - but also any prospect of work and sources of income.
Mrs Schroedter described this as a lack of coherence.
It is not enough to say that, in the Member States, there is already 40 years' worth of experience.
Finally, following on from what was agreed in Tampere, the report restates the need for a European Public Prosecutor. This issue has been brought once again to the fore by Commissioner Vitorino' s timely decision to ask the IGC to include in its agenda the creation of this new role, which everyone considers vital.
Hopes and expectations were raised higher still by the strong messages sent out by Commissioners Prodi and Kinnock in plenary and in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
There exists a special clause which requires Parliament' s assent in two cases.
The Danish pension scheme, the Efterløn, only allows people resident in Denmark and people who have completed the required period of employment in Denmark to retire.
Nevertheless, at the last Fisheries Council of 1999, held on 16 and 17 December, the Member States involved in this area of fishing, namely France, Spain and Portugal, considered that applying the precautionary principle which sets a TAC reduced from 5 000 tonnes to 2 000 tonnes, as the Commission proposed, was excessively cautious.
We therefore ask the European Commission for special measures and to adopt the principle of equal opportunities in all tourism programmes and programmes for company development.
It is a perfectly legitimate declaration of intent from the Commission, insofar as it concerns its own programmes and not those of Member States.
This is why it is necessary to refer to previous international agreements, or the OSPAR objectives.
In the meantime, I approve and encourage this clearly expressed desire in your communication.
Commissioner, we shall continue to raise the issue, as Article 158, paragraph 1, of the Treaty of Amsterdam provides for an integrated policy for islands.
I am very concerned that the assistance we provide should arrive expeditiously and in a way which can maximise our assistance.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 24 January the Council considered the consequences of the accident the previous month involving the oil tanker Erika.
The Commission insists on first evaluating such applications as to their safety and efficacy before giving authorisations.
It means that in Fleetwood, 30 inshore boats are tied up until the end of April.
A proposal can be made, a proposal should be made, on the basis of Article 280 of the Treaty, by the middle of this year.
We look forward to reading the full Commission proposal on reform and we look forward to working out the detail alongside the Commission because, unlike what Mr Elles has just said, the Commissioner has made a commitment to discuss it with Parliament between now and 1 March.
I think that, with this report, we are, once again, one step closer to the realisation of the internal market.
What about the infrastructures?
Although this may be a rather Utopian ideal, I want a Commissioner, when he can, an MEP, a minister to attend public debates in all the regions of Europe.
In my opinion, funding for cross-border initiatives should only be provided if it is actually required by the regions.
Specific compensation should be provided for the fishermen and shellfish farmers who have suffered considerable loss of income and who face having to invest considerable sums in order to repair everything and regain consumer confidence.
Of course, I am in favour of providing assistance where we can.
In the days immediately following this terrible storm I wrote to you myself with a request for you to ask the French authorities to redraw the boundaries of Objective 2 so that all areas devastated by the storms in France and elsewhere could benefit from Objective 2.
On the one hand, we vote for a budget line for the fight against AIDS and, on the other hand, we do nothing to ensure compliance with mandatory licences within the framework of the very same TRIPS, despite the fact that this would allow developing countries to produce their own medicines and halt the AIDS massacre.
So I believe that we should take today' s debate as an opportunity to call for a rapid end to the policy of sanctions, as stated in Amendment No 10.
The first is the harmonisation of national development policies and regional development policies.
I would like to express my delight, with you, at this pleasing outcome. In spite of a budget situation which does not match up to our ambitions, these results will now enable us to approach the future positively and I would like to pick up on what Mr Gargani has just said, that the Commission made a statement regarding a mid-term assessment.
As was emphasised at Tampere, and as part of our preparations for the Feira European Council in June 2000, we will have to prepare a summary of the implications of the new external dimension of justice and home affairs with a view to adopting cross-pillar policy strategies, which strengthen the links between the Union' s internal and external policies in this field and help to uphold the Union' s position on the world stage.
I shall not list them all, but they include implementing intersectoral policies, increasing efficiency in the use of public funds, assisting the various partners in drawing up regional or national programming together, etc. The Commission takes note of these, but several of these guidelines or these questions are related more to other documents, such as the Guide to the Reform of the Structural Funds or the methodological working document.
To this end, more extensive, compatible, uniform data is required, and we expect this to provide us with more general information on the Union' s fishing industry if properly collected and interpreted.
From the many points made by Mr van Hulten in his report, I would like to highlight a few, not necessarily in order of importance but just randomly.
This is also typical of a policy which makes citizens wonder what Brussels actually does?
The most remote regions, particularly the four French overseas departments, must be able to coordinate INTERREG III and the EDF in order to fund, in turn, cooperation projects with their ACP neighbours in their respective geographical areas.
They cover provisions on the movement of workers, freedom of establishment, supply of services, current payments and movement of capital.
Madam President, we admire Mr Kinnock' s vision and sense of realism. For he is holding up visions of a well-oiled and effective administration and is, at the same time, drawing our attention to the difficulties which will arise and which can already be anticipated.
GMOs are the new challenge facing us.
It makes it impossible for those same Member States, at the IGC, to fail to give operational meaning to the protection and advancement of fundamental rights.
Traditionally they have been used by governments and some local authorities as an agency for the payment of state pensions and other benefits as well as a local collection centre for house rents, local taxes and so on. But as the modernisation of public financial systems leads to more and more electronic cash movements straight to and from bank accounts, so the viability of rural post offices is being threatened.
Political leaders must show real courage to put in place a framework which can lead to an overall peace settlement within the Middle East.
President. I have received several proposed amendments relating to the topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
This is important, since government deficit means the deficit accumulated by all forms of government.
As the UK business grew, we invested in more people, as the Dutch business grew we invested in more machinery.
I am proud to support such a resolution.
This, however, presupposes that we set up an internal scheme quickly in order to be able to guarantee the confidentiality of sensitive documents.
I find this a well-balanced formula which does not preclude a number of other things.
Our discrepancy stems from the fact that the Commission continues to misunderstand the character of the general system and the co-responsibility of our arrangement which gives our Basque fiscal rules the same nature, foundation and aim as the rules of the Member States of the Union, and that they are applied in a general way to all tax-payers who, by virtue of points which fall under an external system of law, are subject to those rules.
I do, of course, understand the constraints of the moment and I am prepared to entertain the idea of the risk of failure....
It is not an acceptable procedure that measures to improve the environment, which are in keeping with the Commission' s guidelines, cannot be taken because these are considered to constitute prohibited aid to shipyards.
The problem is that the current political isolation of the country means that access to this area is restricted.
Furthermore, although there might be international consensus on the introduction of the scheme, the question would remain regarding how the tax revenue would be distributed.
With a figure for trade in goods and services of FRF 36 000 billion only being equal to the product of four days' speculation, the financial bubble owes very little to the productive activity of individuals.
This morning, in the lengthy debate which I attended with Mr Prodi, many of you mentioned the lack of democracy and remoteness of the European institutions.
That is lacking in this new system, or at least is only there in embryonic form.
I believe that the Portuguese Presidency can contribute positively to this.
I think, therefore, that the cost element should be built in right from the outset in the policy of all projects, and as far as I know, this is not the case by any stretch of the imagination.
The other point is that Article 8 of the Council decision does not specify either the method by which the European Parliament is to sound the alarm, or the time limit within which it must exercise its restricted power of control.
In Europe, legislation is stricter and it is compulsory to inspect 25% of the incoming vessels according to the port-state control directive.
We must attempt to avoid that and establish the structures so as to ensure that there is a proper dissemination of information between scientists, that there is full consultation and discussion and that the authority at Community level has the opportunity and is mandated to seek the advice and opinion of independent scientists in all Member States and indeed maybe even beyond, where experts are to be found elsewhere.
Lastly, an issue for which we are increasingly responsible, as the world' s foremost economic and commercial power, that is, Europe' s voice in the world, which does not simply mean adopting an active approach to the Millennium Round.
In a country governed by the rule of law and which is a member of the European Union, it should be possible for all ideas and options to be defended, provided that this occurs democratically and with respect for the rights of the individual and the principles and values of justice, freedom and economic and social progress on which the Union is based. The transgression of these principles is simply not acceptable, as clearly indicated in the Treaties.
Democracy, respect for human rights and rule of law are amongst the principles that we must uphold.
Let us look at an example. Rover in Great Britain, if they were responsible for all end-of-life cars, would actually be responsible for 5.8 million cars within the European Union and would immediately have to set aside EUR 250 million against recycling costs, whereas a manufacturer from Korea building similar cars would only have to shell out peanuts, as a representative of Deutsche Bank put it.
We could, if one third of the Members of Parliament so requested, require that the Council and the Commission look into the matter.
We will be vigilant over the next five years to ensure the reforms now being suggested are fully implemented and will support efforts made to modernise institutions.
This applies both in terms of the substance and the financial aspect.
Would the Commissioner argue for some of the information budget of the Commission to be put towards informing and consulting the citizens on this issue of a Citizens Charter?
Subject: New INTERREG Initiative In point 1 of Annex 2 to its draft Communication on INTERREG entitled: Promotion of urban, rural and coastal development, the Commission authorises for the renovation and development of historic urban centres using a joint cross-border strategy.
It is an awful sort of horse-trading, based on unequal positions!
The process should be allowed to continue and be given the necessary encouragement.
For four days, the immigrants were collectively hounded.
- (FR) Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, water will be one of the main environmental and world issues of the twenty-first century.
In any case, we shall see what specific steps transpire when the time comes for practical action.
And then when the work and the action start something emerges which the official policy, including ourselves at this level, could never have imagined would suddenly have developed so well.
The term 'tourism' must no longer be solely perceived as synonymous with sun, sea and holidays, which has the effect of reducing the interest taken in the subject at institutional level.
And yet President Prodi himself gave firm guidance to the Italian Government during those years and is therefore aware of the nature and extent of the sacrifices demanded of our fellow citizens and which they made in order to sign up to the euro, and he is aware of the major role played by Italy in European development.
It seems to us that these limits are justified: firstly, by the need to diversify investments; secondly, because of the vulnerability to the need to reimburse investment at any time; thirdly, in order to avoid an inordinate influence over the investment funds.
Does this not stand in stark contradiction to the guideline on employability?
Mr President, I am neither a member of the Legal Affairs Committee nor a lawyer, but like almost all of us, I understand the need for this Single Economic Area of Europe to have its parallel in a single area of freedom, security and justice.
This is a moral obligation the EU and all of us have.
I do not think that the intervention of the United States should push us in a direction that would lead to our taking insufficient account of environmental considerations.
Moreover, I have heard that for the next elections, it appears that very few women will feature on the electoral lists in Greece.
The European Union should actually place social issues at the heart of the building of Europe.
However, up till now, Austria has committed no serious or persistent violation.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
We should, at any rate, judge the Portuguese Presidency on its actions and not on its words.
It transcends competition, it transcends the cohesion of the internal market. I believe that it profoundly affects the meaning of European integration, the meaning of the legitimacy of European integration.
In my opinion, the political battle should be fought at a political concept level rather than at a gender level.
I am sure that it will serve, amongst other things, to make his second report more flexible and for him to step up efforts to find a consensus amongst the groups.
In this second report, the experts have gone a step further and criticised some of the political groups in Parliament, which may have hesitated to remove the European Commission from office, since they shared the political affiliations of some of its members.
We want a structure which allows every Euro to be spent effectively, and our accounts demonstrate that this is not happening at present.
I was able to verify this, for example, during a visit I made to the Azores in Portugal a few days ago with regard to a natural source of renewable energy.
I come from a region, Galicia, which has suffered similar accidents in the past.
We, Euskal Herritarrok, are convinced that a definitive solution to the present struggle can only be found through an open process of dialogue and negotiation with no limited agenda.
The harmonisation of criminal law or the introduction of minimum legal standards should not be legitimised against the background of problems of one' s own creation but from considerations of reason and necessity.
I will go further in the written answer which I have promised in order to set things out more objectively and precisely.
We have encountered several problems in some of the other languages, but have not been able to check all of these, and I would thus urge you to be mindful of problems of this type.
This is why we ask you to vote for this resolution: we in Europe should not be intimidated by American interests which are being pushed by financial, religious and industrial groups.
The Community action programme for civil protection, established by a Council decision on 9 December, was launched on 1 January 2000.
Congratulations on your maiden speech: It went really well.
Because, when the spectre of barbarism resurfaces, failure to oppose is tantamount to capitulation.
Clearly, many citizens are 'disenchanted and anxious' about the lack of real and lasting solutions to basic problems, such as unemployment and social exclusion, which affect our very existence. This must be one of our absolute priorities.
Even in countries such as Germany and Belgium, which have specific legal commitments on the representation of the two sexes, the involvement of women on various committees is no more than 18%.
We have just received the reply of the German Government to the observations made.
Mr President, my group asked that this debate be set up in order to provide Parliament with an opportunity to express its solidarity with the people directly affected by this ecological disaster, affected both in terms of their economic activities and in terms of their attachment to their natural environment.
The next item is the Commission statement on flooding in Mozambique.
Tell me what national parliament, for example, is handed all preliminary investigation documents.
But the Commission does exist to serve the Union and its peoples with high standards of performance.
We recognise that most of the officials within the Commission are extremely hard-working.
Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive does indeed, as many speakers have already said, represent an historic chance to simplify and improve the jumble of piecemeal EU regulations and directives and achieve a high level of environmental protection in Europe.
During the next round of EU Structural Funds 2000-2006, other EU initiatives such as "Equal" and "Urban" will be operating.
Not to save jobs.
Madam President, Commissioner Patten, Mr Javier Solana, usted no es una persona loca, todo lo contrario (you are not mad, quite the opposite).
It is still the old imperial service.
This has happened, as previously mentioned, with the MAGPs. These have seriously prejudiced the countries which have strictly complied with them and provided the corresponding data to the Commission, compared with other countries which have failed to comply or simply not provided the data.
This will no doubt allow us to release the funds for Kosovo quickly and deal with the concerns which both Mr Swoboda and Mrs Pack have mentioned.
We also presented a proposal for a decision on combating fraud and forgery of non-cash means of payment.
But, in reality, we can no longer rule out the fact that it will lead to a less than optimum global situation.
The ÖVP played no small part in helping Austria find its way into the European Union.
In 1910, a woman' s right to vote was on the agenda.
It is most especially important not to create unnecessary problems before the enlargement of the EU.
With regard to the first, the Commission has sent us a series of proposals, contained in two directives and an action plan, which aim to apply the following decision taken by the Heads of State and Government in Tampere. This states that 'The European Union must ensure fair treatment of third country nationals who reside legally on the territory of its Member States.
Mr President, on behalf of the Members of Parliament on the Bonino List, I intend to confirm the position that we adopted in the Committee on Civil Liberties and am thus also announcing our vote on their behalf. It is a vote against this report, or more precisely a vote against the convention on which the report is based.
The Commission proposals being debated here will give it the face-lift it needs.
Mr President, the advantage of speaking at the end of such a debate is that you can react to what has been said before.
Indeed, I had occasion recently to say as much to all the ministers responsible for urban policy at a meeting in Tampere.
We too are concerned about this lack of democracy, and the Commission has therefore decided to launch the 'Dialogue on Europe' in order to play its part in this direct contact with the people. This initiative will be launched on the day after the opening of the Intergovernmental Conference.
We should be grateful that there are Heads of State like Vaclav Havel in our Europe.
What is your schedule, how long will it take you to produce a positive list?
This does not reflect the truth of the situation but is pure propaganda.
This is why it was justifiable to set up a system of aid to this sector with the aim of ensuring the survival of successful businesses, even if this was in contradiction of Article 4 of the ECSC Treaty.
Mr President, Mr Patten, of course, you are very well-qualified to comment on account of the time you spent in China, and you are well aware of how hard the Tibetans are trying to initiate a debate, something which has always been blocked hitherto.
I passionately defend Europe' s heritage of human rights and the rule of law.
I hope that Europe, in terms of social protection, will make a step forward, taking into account subsidiarity, for without subsidiarity, this would not be possible.
The European Union has a certain responsibility in view of that particular role, but we cannot undertake to rapidly rebuild structures that were, as you have said yourself, Mrs Karamanou, not the best before the military action in Kosovo.
Our levels of research and development are too low compared with our competitors and our low level of employment reflects, among other factors, the imbalances in our labour market.
If liberalisation continues in this area too, then there is a great risk that one day we will see entire regions with no postal service.
One part of this is to improve the access of the citizen to the Court.
That is a volume of funding that can be put to very effective use, a large amount; and of course the information campaign will also focus very strongly on protecting the euro against counterfeiting.
Decisions have also been adopted against a tax of this kind.
One thing we should stop and think about is the fact that there is a very uncertain market for recycled plastic bumpers of cars.
I have already told the European Parliament that a joint meeting will be held in April between Parliament and the Commission, after the Lisbon conference, so that all aspects can be discussed and the social programme for 2000-2006 can finally be drafted.
All good things come in threes, especially in our policy area.
The measures agreed in November 1998 are binding since 21 June, I repeat 21 June 1999, months before the communication was forwarded to the Parliament' s Fisheries Committee and 9 months almost to the date.
Europe is making its presence felt at a time when we are doing something for all the citizens of Europe and not simply for the development of an individual State, whichever one it may be.
But I did notice a drop in alertness and when we debated the amendments of our Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, you mentioned the Greens on their own in every instance.
Solidarity, dialogue and agreements between local, regional, national and European institutions and employers, unions and the immigrant communities themselves, whose countries of origin must also undoubtedly assume some responsibility, are essential.
We approve of your position on this: you did well not to isolate that country any further.
These are serious matters on which this House must act.
At the Santa Maria da Feira European Council meeting in June, the Portuguese Presidency will present a report on this issue specifically in the light of the information the Commission presented in its White Paper a few days ago.
In comparison with the current procedure, the new one puts more emphasis on the responsibility of the state concerned and allows for greater flexibility in the consultation process, with a view to conducting an effective dialogue leading to measures to be taken to redress the situation.
Does the Council consider that, on the basis of Article 255 of the Treaty, national legislation on transparency can be regulated, that is to say legislation not relating to the EU' s institutions?
I am also envisaging that the authority will be much more proactive than our current regime - anticipate rather than react, identify issues before they become crises.
First: a common asylum law must be created and the burden of absorbing refugees must be distributed.
I have no objection to examining an amendment making Community law stricter but, as other members have stressed, we need to start with application, because there is already a legal framework at European Union level and we must not lose sight of that fact.
Today, this green position is being threatened under pressure from, in particular, the German and French car industries.
Poles only need five words for this: nothing about us without us!
I am using the phrase 'is said to be' on purpose, because official Chechen sources are still denying that they would have exchanged Mr Babitsky for a number of Russian prisoners of war.
It is meant to provoke because there is a very serious issue here that some countries do not hold EU law in the respect which it deserves.
Yet words spoken, written or signed are not in themselves enough.
I would ask you to confirm that, if an official has said that an Austrian company is in some way excluded from participating in joint development projects, then this official has got the wrong end of the stick, and that, if he has not said this, then there is no story.
My intention is - and I insist - for us to begin discussions after the end of March, also coinciding with the Council of Ministers, and, of course, before the end of the six-month period of the Portuguese Presidency, for us to have texts to discuss.
In other words, for many citizens, and not just in your country, you personify the European values to which we constantly voice our attachment.
Mr President, I am sure that Mrs Schreyer must have a very good reason for not being here because her absence would be inexcusable otherwise.
My thoughts also turn to Bernard Kouchner' s efforts, of the stability pact that we all vigorously support with total dedication, but I also think of new events, such as Croatia, where the situation has changed in a few weeks: the European institutions immediately opened the way to dialogue with this country and received the news knowing full well that the only way to resolve not only Bosnia' s problems, but more particularly Serbia' s problems is to throw a curtain of democracy around Serbia.
It is obvious, however, that these countries, impoverished within a Communist economic system, cannot cope with a social policy like, for example, Sweden' s.
This is such an important matter for consideration that firm conclusions have to drawn.
First, the adjustments to the scope of what is meant by 'government institutional sector' under ESA 95.
To give such a role to an authority at this stage would be, in my view, a retrograde step and represent a dilution of democratic accountability.
That is why we said that we were in favour of the strategy that the Commission outlined here for the Seattle negotiations and for later ones.
This is a very important social debate in the creation of a European area in which the right to freedom, security and justice will be recognised in the future Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Last October I expressed my views on the Hatzidakis report on the transport of dangerous goods by rail.
Please stop being so unpleasant and pouring cold water on everything.
If we are capable of defining what our area of governance is, I think that would be very positive.
This aid must be aligned with the objectives of the Union, particularly economic and social cohesion, sustainable development and research.
No specific target date for the implementation of this principle was included in the common position.
I have been informed that the rapporteur has been delayed for several minutes.
No.
Some of the most active and committed proponents and agents of change in our urban areas are local residents.
I would suggest the following: where possible, apply it on a voluntary basis, where there is reluctance, impose it.
Question No 39 by (H-0036/00):
It is important in this field to implement measures relating to the mutual recognition of judicial decisions, and we believe that on the basis of work already done, it will be possible, at least in the field of seizure of assets, for measures to be adopted in the near future to provide for mutual recognition of judicial decisions.
Essentially, my opinion is as follows: I deplore the fact that, in a field as crucial as the transport of dangerous goods, we keep putting off the adoption of harmonised standards to the detriment of human beings and the environment.
Do you really think that the governments of the Union are prepared to pay the corresponding price at a time when many of them, apparently at least, have decided to continue to reap what ten years ago were called the peace dividends.
There has to be a willingness to cooperate.
In general, the current guidelines cannot be considered as clear or transparent.
When the talks between the SPÖ and ÖVP broke down, the Socialists attempted to form a minority government and asked the FPÖ for their support.
The present position is more dramatic in terms of displaced populations, and in terms of a whole raft of economic factors and of the level of satisfaction with basic health facilities resulting from the overall breakdown in organisational structures in Kosovo' s administration.
It is nonetheless gratifying that we should have united behind some of the strategically important proposals, namely that the Union' s economic policy ought to prioritise investments, partly in order to involve all the Union' s citizens in the information society, something which can also be of major significance from an economic point of view.
Madam President, I am amazed at Mr Corbett' s reaction.
We have to be able to think hard about how we can coordinate the aim of competitiveness with the aim of full employment; that is what was mentioned in your programme.
Account is taken of that too in the White Paper but where there is a desire and a demonstrated need for the use of such a system, it most certainly can be used.
I welcome Mr Barnier' s statement and I also welcome the measures which the Commission has announced.
Parliament has no equivalent power.
I would also ask the Commission to ensure that the environmental pillar of the EU' s policy is integrated into the projects submitted and that the goal of reducing CO2 for example forms an experimental added value in the projects proposed.
Who established the limit beyond which this public service mission is compromised?
There is regression in every sector of Chinese civil society.
My concern though with this debate is that we are fiddling whilst Rome burns.
Madam President, Commissioner, rapporteur, I would like to start by thanking Mr Graça Moura most warmly for the tremendous efforts he has put into the discussion of this Culture 2000 programme.
I adopt and wholeheartedly support this political objective that the seven most remote regions of the Union are actually active frontiers of the Union, even if, or precisely because, they are remote and located in other regions of the world where we must bring our influence and our action to bear.
It is also important to bear in mind that there are a wide range of measures, which can be taken in applying the precautionary principle. For example, a research programme, public information campaigns, recommendations and so on.
I have no doubt that the rapporteur for this legislature, Mrs Lienemann, has made great efforts and shown great dedication in reconciling positions, and has succeeded to a large extent.
Mr Corbett, I have not received any notification.
Resolution on the Commission' s strategic objectives for 2000-2005
Therefore, it is my firm belief that, since Helsinki, there has been far greater incentive to link the accession process with the resolution of the conflict.
I am not opposed to updating the common minimum regulations enabling a collective investment undertaking to obtain a so-called EU passport.
The sheer volume of fish that are thrown back dead also means that any improvement in fisheries data is meaningless.
Peace has broken out, and we can now look forward to cooperation with South Africa in accordance with the common dreams and values which ought to have underpinned the whole business from the start.
co-president of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly. Mr President, I thank the Council and the Commission for their statements this morning, but I will concentrate on coherence policy because that is what the agenda says we are talking about.
Those responsible for what happened in El Ejido are a minority who set out to satisfy their desire for vengeance on the immigrants. We must bear in mind that vengeance is not a solution.
I forgot to mention my intention to go before the national parliaments, as I have already done, not only by meeting their representatives here but by going to see them in situ.
I would like to comment on two things. Firstly, vintage cars and motorbikes.
In cases of special urgency involving serious violations of one of these essential elements, measures will be taken immediately and the other party will be notified.
In contrast with that, I see the amounts allocated for renewable energies, which are not only an ecological element but which look set to undergo considerable economic expansion.
Subject: Construction of nuclear plant in earthquake-prone Turkey The two recent earthquakes in Turkey registering more than 7 on the Richter scale raise tremendous doubts about Turkey's persistence with the construction of costly nuclear reactors at Akkuyu, while energy reserves produced by the Atatürk dams are exported to third countries and the EU spends a slice of its budget on repairing the damage wrought by the earthquakes.
I believe it is only a coincidence, but the Commissioner for the Environment is also, of course, to participate in this group.
Our efforts to completely honour that pledge will be evident to the House when consideration is given to the reform package that was adopted by the Commission today, well within the demanding timetable that we set for ourselves four months ago.
But let me make one thing clear on behalf of my group: social convergence strategies should not be an alternative to social legislation.
Europe is therefore facing an arduous task; that of combining a Community water policy which is fragmented in terms of objectives and means into more coherent framework legislation.
This cannot be a good thing in a European Union where we are ever mindful of employment.
There are hardly any reintegration programmes for people who have been relocated to the so-called New Lands.
. Mr President, this has been a very useful debate.
We have agreed on a process to establish new trading arrangements that will pursue trade liberalisation between the parties and to formulate provisions on trade-related matters.
I would be clearly in favour of subsidiarity.
I abstained in the vote on adopting the resolution.
Firstly, Herr Trittin, the Environment Minister, was not in tune with his colleagues in the Cabinet, then Chancellor Schröder blundered in like a bull in a china shop, having no expert knowledge of this process.
The third objective is urban and rural development, within the scope of a balanced territorial policy.
Telecommunications costs have risen as a consequence of companies being bought and sold and marketing costs accounting for more than 50% of companies' turnover.
Millions of people do not even have clean water - a absolute necessity for survival - at their disposal.
Mrs Karamanou, I recognise the fact that all the efforts that have been made in Kosovo in this field have not been enough.
In committee we thought that it was necessary for the economic and social regeneration of urban areas to go hand-in-hand with the creation of an atmosphere of tolerance towards minorities and therefore for measures designed to reduce racism and xenophobia to be an integral part of programmes to be funded by URBAN.
Furthermore, this means that we in the Council - and I think that Parliament will join us in this - should encourage the Commission' s involvement in this undertaking.
I really should like to ask that a review be carried out of the way in which sittings are managed.
As a result of the debates on the principle of precaution, traceability, responsibility and transparency, the European Commission has presented a White Paper on food safety.
Mr President, it is a rare honour to be given a second opportunity to ask questions!
The European Parliament will continue to carefully monitor the implementation of the fifth framework programme for research and technical development as regards the promotion of women and to come up with ideas for the course of the fifth framework programme for research and technical development.
But when corpus juris was actually launched in 1977 in San Sebastian - to a very select audience of 140 jurists, with no media invited - the President of the European Parliament at the time, Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, said that he considered it embryonic and that the intention was to extend EU competence in criminal matters to all areas of criminal activity.
The new Europe should not only expand horizontally, but also vertically, by living by our values in practice and by developing a democratic structure of a real community.
The Council' s ability to intervene in this matter is strictly limited.
Today we will take note of what you say and have a glass or two of Alsace wine, although we do not know how much tax is put on it, but I suppose it is a lot.
We must make sure that we get started quickly with the programme to improve water quality.
The key issue is to support the efforts of the OSCE Minsk group to find a settlement to the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict and we stand ready to help in any way we can.
Mr President, I will not use my speaking time by going into the individual cases debated here today.
This proposal is under examination by the Council and the European Parliament.
Within the Commission, the one hand does not know what the other hand is doing.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, INTERREG is one of the most European of all the Structural Funds.
The more remote the community, the greater the difference becomes.
But to bring it down to a more human level: to give assistance to those people who are trying to come off drugs, and give them proper controls and proper mechanisms for rehabilitation; secondly, to coordinate amongst the police forces and the judiciary with regard to common penalties and common laws; thirdly, to undertake an information and awareness campaign for young people; and once and for all to put an end to these very dangerous words of "normalisation" and "harm reduction" and show that any weakening of our resolve in making sure that drugs are not legalised must be for the good of all our people.
Mr President, it goes without saying that the development of a European security and defence identity will have a huge impact on the three countries which joined NATO last year: Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary.
He went back to work, rewrote his report and took into account the very many suggestions, but had to face nearly another 100 amendments in the second round.
The first area of incoherence is the lack of consultation between the Union and the Member States on individual cooperation policies.
As I have understood it, there has been a certain lack of clarity in some respects as to how this is to be understood.
That is why it is imperative to stabilise the two major states of Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan in particular. That is why I would like to ask you what you are actually able to do within your own sphere of competence, how the negotiations with regard to the partnership agreement with these two countries are going, that is, with regard to political relations that is.
This is very sensible because key economic and social difficulties in our country cannot be overcome unless there is key integration between national, European and local funding.
Mr President, our objective in setting a framework for unit trusts and other UCTIS is to secure the highest possible safe return for our savers, which is why I want to address the issue of derivatives in my remarks today.
Resumption of the sitting
If we mess it up, then we will have lost a great deal more.
Finally, and this follows on from what I have just said, we would like the Commission to inform the Committee on Budgets on a very regular basis, monthly, regarding progress on payments made.
There are doubts in my Group and doubts also persist in this House, for example, about something which should be good news: the incorporation of the Schengen Agreement into the Community framework.
However, politics exacts its revenge, and having been thrown out of the window by a debate on a limited agenda, it comes back in, as a matter of fact, through a door, and through the front door in the case of Austria, since a party is entering the Austrian Government which seems to represent a return to intolerance, xenophobia and forms of racism.
We have spent two centuries laying the foundations of a democracy whose fragility is constantly brought home to us by events.
The common position is a reasonable compromise.
The Union cannot achieve its environmental goals unless the use of renewables is actively stepped up.
Globalisation of the economy must not be reduced to product and quality certification, just as the globalisation of politics must not come to mean levelling of values or dampening of hopes and enthusiasm.
In return for this greater degree of autonomy, managers must be made fully and personally responsible for their actions.
The Commission sincerely hopes that Parliament and the Council quickly finalise this important dossier which constitutes, in our view, the most effective answer to the concerns raised by cases such as the ones which brought us here today.
The political priorities must be set by this House and the MEPs.
Standards of food safety and indeed other areas of safety are obviously of critical importance in relation to enlargement and this is a matter that I have drawn to the attention of Mr Verheugen.
Why cannot we just be satisfied with the common position currently tabled? If we are, then all that remains for us to do is to congratulate the Council on the result achieved.
Poverty in the third world is a harrowing problem that demands urgent attention.
It is simply a budgetary policy which can be coherent with price stability but which also allows us to have an appropriate monetary policy which contributes to growth.
This will allow for meaningful bench-marking and improved customer orientation by the incumbent operator as a result of the combined pressure by regulators, competitors and customers.
As far as that is concerned, I believe there are judicial uncertainties that need to be overcome.
In the grand scheme of the directive, it is perhaps a minor point, but nevertheless a disputed one.
I feel there is a lot of scaremongering going on.
I think we all acknowledge the economic, social and environmental importance of tourism in today' s developed Europe and its great potential for growth and employment.
Mr Solana, the war in Kosovo and the continuing crisis, have served to reveal a European public opinion that is aware that defending the fundamental values that gave rise to the European Union, throughout the world, should no longer continue to rest solely on the shoulders of the President of the United States of America and that the time has come to share the burden, which our American friends have constantly been demanding since Europe became a world economic power.
There is a lot of expertise within the relevant organisations which deserves to be shared.
The ever increasing volume of goods passing through Europe entails all kinds of risks, known and unknown, for employees and the social environment.
Under this umbrella, each Member State is to submit proposals in the form of a Community initiative programme for that particular country.
But the Member States failed to cooperate.
Secondly, we said, in very specific terms, that we will work closely with all Member States in examining the situation as it develops in Austria.
Mr President, may I begin by paying tribute to the painstaking and, from what I hear, the pains-accepting work of Mr van Hulten in preparing his report.
(FR) In its communication on its strategic objectives for 2000-2005, the Commission repeats that Europe needs to become a 'global actor' capable of speaking with a strong voice in the world.
Obstinate as I am, I also want to say that the regulations governing public access to official records must be clearly better than the draft which has been circulating on the Internet. Otherwise, we shall not get anywhere in this fight.
We shall now proceed to the vote.
The Council has always stressed the need to seek prosecution of all those who have perpetrated such acts and of those who continue to perpetrate such acts.
I have taken note of your comment, Mr Speroni.
These people live in areas which should benefit from these projects.
I will ensure that we go further than the rather dry terms of the Commission' s text and it will certainly be more a question of sharing the work than working in liaison with each other. I will also ensure that over the next two years we can coordinate the initiatives taken by yourselves and ourselves which will be separate but joint.
My second point concerns the safety of these plants.
In order to achieve a more rapid and efficient boost for attaining these objectives, we think that those who generate employment, the real entrepreneurs and those who really guarantee new sources of employment, that is, businesspeople, must participate in this initiative.
This is unusual, but most of these amendments are desperately needed to plug the holes.
EQUAL remains crucial also to regions like my own, in the east of England, outside the principal funds of Objective I. We have had an extra incentive to take up Community initiative funding and an excellent record in response.
With the Maastricht Treaty and the single currency, budgetary discipline became tighter and recourse to devaluation ceased as a means of endeavouring to restore marginal competitiveness.
The citizens are right to ask: "do our regions now count amongst those which are lost forever?"
Madam President, first of all I should like to thank Mr Koch for his report which has, at its heart, the issue of transport safety.
This is because the 15% increase is nominal and not real, granted that average yearly inflation in the Community during those years was approximately 2%.
What I do see right across Europe is people drinking Coca Cola, eating hamburgers, wearing baseball caps, watching Hollywood films and often doing all this at the same time.
Its function will have to be set out in detail in the proposal I will bring to the Commission in September.
That is what we expect of you in the next five years.
But thank you for your remarks.
There seem to be intractable technical problems but we are definitely working on it.
We are told we should change the limit from 350 grammes to 150 grammes, or even 50 grammes.
It is downright scandalous what goes on!
- (DE) The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance abstained from the vote on this matter because, in the plenary debate of the previous day, Commissioner Bolkestein did not respond to any of my questions regarding EU accession to the WIPO Treaties.
Racist and xenophobic acts are wholly unacceptable within our Community, wherever they take place.
That is vitally important to the accurate and reliable calculation of deficits.
The sustained independence and strength of the Commission are, of course, basic to that mission as this House has repeatedly recognised.
Our approach to development policy must always be based on respect for human rights and the fight against poverty.
Competition between the regions will certainly strengthen rather than weaken the European Union.
I hope we can revisit this issue at a later time.
It is one of the most wonderful words in a democracy and must be used.
Already stretched resources are being further stretched.
- This report calls for drastic cuts in the level of illegal state aid dished out by some Member States.
As for the other points, Mr Prodi, I will take economic and social policy as an example: the European social model is certainly experiencing a major crisis and it is certainly not coincidental that unemployment tops the list of problems that none of our policies has managed to resolve, but it is not certain that it can be resolved by going through a list of problems that we have discussed in the past, without having a clear idea or proposal which takes note of the fact that Europe contains economies that are growing at some of the most sustainable rates and that it is not by chance that these are the economies which have made labour market flexibility and enterprise their prime objective.
Is there anyone who wishes to speak on behalf of these groups in favour of this proposal?
Human rights are being violated consistently and have been for a long period of time, not only by UNITA, but also by the government itself.
If we have been having a different debate here in this Chamber today then that only goes to show how important this is.
The European Central Bank is keeping very quiet about the staggering rates of return on financial assets, yet it never misses an opportunity to remind us that any wage increase should remain below the rate of increase in productivity.
I remain worried about the capacity of national courts and the capacity of the national competition authorities.
It would amaze and depress me if it were not to do so today.
We regret this as there was actually money left over from the Structural Funds in some countries which could really have helped with pilot projects. We should remember that it is these URBAN projects which specifically allow a truly urban policy to be established.
As such, any request for legal assistance concerning a hypothetical action which is not a crime in the petitioned Member State contravenes this principle of legality and thus the fundamental principles of justice in the petitioned Member State.
The European budget is effectively sourced from VAT and on the basis of GDP, especially now that the Community preference system has been abandoned and the multiplication of free trade areas has put paid to customs duties and the common agricultural levy, which had already been cut back drastically by the Generalised System of Preferences.
First, streamlining.
So our Treaty has made provision for barriers for the time when it is too late, but we are not at that point: today we have to take steps to ensure that we do not get to that point.
This showed up the weaknesses of the European Union' s cultural policy activities once again.
We are therefore thinking in terms of the Treaty and we want the agenda of the next Intergovernmental Conference to allow for a deeper reform of the Union.
This is just an underhand way of making workers redundant.
And for ten years now, its parliament has been out of action.
Mr Poettering, it goes without saying that Commissioner Patten' s participation in this debate is most opportune, and we have agreed that I will allow him to speak when he so wishes.
I also want to mention the translation problems, of which I will give just one example, as we do not have much time.
I hope that you will all agree that this is important progress.
Naturally, there are good, capable employees in the Commission, and they are in the majority. But we need radical reform.
The size, unpredictability and irrationality of the global foreign exchange markets have made it harder and harder to manage national and regional economies.
In the German version, paragraph 2 of the resolution has been translated rather misleadingly and I urgently ask for clarification, which I would also like to see in the printed version later.
Firstly, the Irish authorities withdrew their earlier commitment to carry out improvements.
The French Government has initiated a discussion and made proposals to strengthen maritime safety, particularly by fighting against the phenomenon of flags of convenience and by implementing much more extensive inspection.
No, Mr President, I am talking about the lack of human rights policy within the European Union itself.
We revealed the hollowness of the republicans who were nationalistic, xenophobic and anti-minority.
It is equally true, however, that we should begin by saying that this regulation is better than those covering LIFE I and LIFE II.
Merely pulling proposals out of the air is not enough.
Commissioner, it must be made clear that we support UNMIK and the institutions set up by the United Nations, in particular Pillar 4 of course, and it will not do for us to support the parallel structures that have formed in Kosovo and are still in place.
Women are no homogenous collective.
(The sitting was suspended at 7.05 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
The centralised ex ante approval system was doubtlessly originally designed to ensure carefulness but, over the years, it has had the perverse effect of reducing the extent to which managers feel responsible for their decisions.
I hope, like so many others, that the state of emergency in relations between the Commission and Parliament is on the way to being resolved.
In this connection, I should like to thank the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism for adopting one of my amendments adding the EDF to the list of these funds.
The EU and some of its Member States, including my own, have provided emergency financial aid, perhaps a little later than they should have, but they have done so, as have the United States and various countries in the region, particularly South Africa.
All those involved were particularly moved by the enlargement to Namibia and South Africa.
That is the crucial difference between our plans and those of the Commission, when it talks in terms of decentralisation.
The share that renewable energy sources have in total energy production must be increased, but it has to be done in a rational manner.
But how are we to succeed when the resources available are limited and the credibility of our institutions is not very high?
After the debacle in Seattle, our duty from now on is to adopt a concerted position and ensure that the rules of world trade develop and are used to fight poverty.
All this means that we need to protect health, of course, but not by banning alcohol, because that does not work.
The Commission document too, which is being drafted for the summit in Lisbon, takes precisely such a wide approach which covers different areas.
The debate is closed.
What is to be done with this money?
The final part of my question is as follows: when will BSE testing be binding in all Member States?
They are growing, but only in terms of GDP.
The Portuguese presidency has submitted a wide agenda of this kind for the extra summit in Lisbon.
However, the priority should be to reform the governmental cooperation mechanisms, particularly by creating a Council of Ministers for Europe which, by itself and in coordination with the other European institutions, can assume the responsibility for transforming the political decisions of the European Councils into specific actions.
I shall, however, mention the Spanish Socialist Party which has just formed an alliance with the butchers of Albacete and which settled its accounts with Basque nationalists by hiring contract killers.
The Tampere Summit was certainly an important milestone in 1999 for Europe, and for the area of freedom, security and justice in particular.
We will be looking for the detail year by year, for example in the social action programme to be unveiled this year.
Mr President, I would like to welcome the President-in-Office and his colleague from the Justice Ministry, Mr Costa, and to thank them for the welcome they gave my committee in Lisbon last week and the constructive meetings we enjoyed.
The eighth area of incoherence is of a political and practical nature.
Meters could be viewed as a very important tool in water management by the new river basin districts, to help the elimination of water wastage and for the proper planning of future requirements.
All too often we find ourselves calling for this after a disaster has occurred.
The European institutions should follow the example of a number of countries, most notably the United Kingdom, and institute a committee for standards in public life, with a mandate to give advice on professional ethics and rules of conduct in the European institutions.
The mistakes up until 1999 are attributable to those who had responsibility at that time, and we still have no way of knowing whether the new Commission can do any better.
Yet the most basic rules of conduct are being flouted on a massive scale and there are more civilian victims than there were a century ago.
Mr President, I seem to recall from my study of European history, that the 1809 Convention of Sintra was a controversial peace agreement which probably lengthened rather than shortened the Napoleonic wars and nearly cost the Duke of Wellington his job.
There is, of course, no reciprocity in favour of European UCITS.
Computer-controlled selling programmes turned a random blip into an avalanche, burying jobs, lives and industries across the globe.
With regard to Schengen, without wishing to trespass on the territory of the Council, or more precisely the incorporation of the Schengen acquis into the Community framework, I would like to stress, on the topical subject of restoring border controls, that the Commission wishes to reiterate its willingness to ensure greater control of the application of Article 2(2) of the Schengen Convention in order to reinforce its authority.
Finally, I should like to join you in expressing my pleasure at the incredible unity and speed with which this new form of cooperation is being set in motion.
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
TOPICAL AND URGENT DEBATE
The ban on discrimination is the rule in the package of directives and programmes which we submitted.
The most startling aspect of her original report was that she wanted to limit aid to the small group of refugees covered by the Geneva Convention, that is to say so-called quota refugees or UN refugees.
There is a very simple way to deal with those stories.
These cases keep occurring.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to start by thanking Mr Viceconte for his report, which has drawn our attention to a sector which is all too often underestimated.
The rapporteur refers to the need to implement an integrated approach to new EU Structural Fund plans and programmes.
I would again thank the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and Mrs Lienemann for the good and constructive co-operation we have had on this matter.
I would like to think that, given his previous experience as a regional President, he will agree to propose indicators, and a strategy, which will favour economic and social cohesion and not just productivity.
It is not absolutely certain that the predominance of men in the party machinery alone is responsible.
With the planned accession of a large number of these countries in the foreseeable future, it is a matter of urgency to review the current structural policy. I would like to take this opportunity to follow the example of others and call on the Commission to submit proposals for reform sooner rather than later.
We therefore hope that the four objectives which are mentioned in it can reasonably be achieved.
Not a single line, nor a single word, refers to fishing or the CFP.
Together with Mrs Grossetête and the PPE-DE Group, we tabled a motion for a resolution.
Agriculture only provides 5.5% of employment in the Union.
How much more pollution do we have to endure before the industry delivers us tankers with segregated tanks and double holds?
However, the incidents in El Ejido are a symptom of a phenomenon which is present throughout Europe and which deserves our full attention.
My personal opinion is that it would be wrong and unfair to penalise the Austrian people, businesses and employees because of concerns prompted by the establishment in Austria of a new government coalition.
Yet, every year we have the same problem.
Decades will have gone by before we are able to determine the true extent of the damage sustained by the forestry industry.
We experienced the human misery of flooded homes and farms, no sanitation, no drinking water and the environmental disasters of E.coli-infected water.
A second remark made by Mr Gasòliba was that there is currently no evidence that the Tobin tax will stabilise the exchange rates.
It puts into place a certain number of controls and mechanisms to ensure that we can have this kind of harmonised regulatory authorities.
In this respect it is also absolutely vital that we should do our utmost, as soon as possible, to create stronger mechanisms for ensuring that the policies adopted by the Member States and European Union policies are coordinated and complementary.
The Commission can also, in principle, approve Amendment No 60, according to which a timetable is required for implementing the Commission' s proposal to limit discharges of prioritised substances.
I would therefore end up with a situation where a directive on the service provision card might well be in place, but with the hurdles facing the business world being so high, in reality no one would apply for the card. Alternatively, I might have no directive at all.
Firstly, there is the concern that some have expressed, in particular Mrs Randzio-Plath, President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, of whether this new system of legal exception is absolutely compatible with the Treaty.
What happened in Spain could happen in any country in the Union if we are not careful.
In fact, this directive, like so many others addressing environmental issues, is not good.
Disparate actions are not effective.
This is an appeal to the majority of Austrians who have not voted for Haider, who have voted for the clearly democratic options, committed to Europe, and I must point out that Mr Schüssel may have been Minister for Finance, but Chancellor Vranitzky also contributed to Austria' s integration process.
You are building castles in the air and your route map up to the year 2003 calls for 60 000 soldiers.
Mr President, I am one of those who agree that it is appropriate that this particular service should be regulated at European level.
I therefore appeal to the German delegates in particular to prevent major political damage occurring today!
The Commission would do well in this sort of situation to make its decisions not simply on the basis of whether a merger will distort competition but also on the basis of the social and economic consequences.
It is a Community that is destined to exist, in which, when the main thing is under threat, when values are under threat, all democrats must bend over backwards to find solutions to ensure that the mistakes of the past are never made again.
In the postal sector the first phase is already in progress, as the universal service providers have embarked on a process of modernisation.
I have thus proposed that the frost rating be lowered to -40ºC.
The Save river has huge flooding problems as well but no one has even been there yet.
Mr President, I congratulate Mr Corrie on his report.
Because of shoddy drafting the Convention can be interpreted very widely, and it ignores the strict conditions which interception is supposed to be subject to under the European Convention on Human Rights.
The financial and organisational systems vary too greatly for this, and this is also an important reason why social protection has only just been put on the European agenda, and why, in fact, scenarios such as Danny Peters' thirteenth Member State or the European social snake have scarcely got off the ground.
All the more reason for Members of the European Parliament, Ministers, Commissioners to devote a little time to explaining matters to the citizens, to public debate.
Mr President, Commissioner, as far as restructuring goes, there is no doubt that European companies must adapt so that they are better placed to face new challenges or go under.
It is the service which remains closest to the citizens and which we call a 'public service' , which makes it possible for everyone resident within European territory to receive the service, and this entitlement must remain an acquired right, an acquis communautaire.
There is, in fact, a risk of a military coup in the future.
We are now expressing our horror concerning this war.
We feel that precisely because Turkey has embarked on a new type of relationship with the European Union, and also because Turkey now has to respond to the European Union' s positions on common foreign and security policy issues, we will, to be frank, be testing Turkey' s will as regards the European Union' s priorities in its foreign relations.
Firstly, an increase in police numbers would be an important factor in guaranteeing the safety of the civilian population and, in particular, in protecting certain sections of the civilian population. Secondly, an increase in appropriations would allow some officials who have important roles in the administrative and operational process in Kosovo to be kept on.
1997 discharge
Mr President, the Group of the European People' s Party was not satisfied with the conclusions of the European Council in Helsinki.
Mr President, Commissioner, let me begin by warmly congratulating and thanking the rapporteur and pointing out that, in her report, she does not just welcome the draft framework decision but also proposes a few changes, which have been referred to by various speakers but which we cannot discuss in detail now, to supplement and improve the text.
Both of them have done a first-class job.
He said that there would always be unanimity on social questions but, in the Commission' s draft, plans are quite explicitly being made for majority decision-making on issues relating to social security and on taxes connected with the internal market. This means that it will be possible for major parts of the social systems in the Member States to be changed by a majority in Brussels, even if a unanimous French National Assembly, a British House of Commons and a Dutch Lower House should be against this.
The report on so-called discharge contains a comprehensive and extremely critical survey of the accounts.
The common response has been that this tax could not be applied solely at national level and that the right platform for tackling this is the European Union. This is the reason for the oral question to the Council and Commission which we have tabled with 37 other Members.
Accessible higher education, with which you have a certain affinity, is an important instrument in the emancipation of population groups. I am speaking from personal experience as someone who attended the Protestant university in Amsterdam.
In reality we can never stop accidents happening at sea, but it is incumbent upon us all to learn the lessons whenever an incident of this kind takes place and apply those lessons to reduce risks in future.
And so I would like to repeat my question as to whether the Council intends to take more specific action to debate these issues with Mr Kouchner, who has a major responsibility for the situation in Kosovo today.
We need organisation and statistical monitoring.
We are all familiar with the idea advocated by Mr von Wogau, according to which what we need is a flexible workforce.
But why pay attention to such detail as basic diplomatic niceties in the face of a tough negotiation process over territory?
But it is extremely significant for the process to be set in motion.
Very briefly, I would like to thank the various Members for their interventions and to tell you that safety is one of the Commission' s priorities in the field of transport.
History is a compendium of events which could have been avoided.
Indeed, if social protection were to be phased out as a result of competition, this would also harm social protection as a production factor.
Can we expect that Structural Fund financing relating to energy policy will focus on the promotion of regional, renewable energy sources?
This is not satisfactory - I would like to make that quite clear.
As there are doubts, would it not be more advisable, from a political point of view, to put the reform of the legal system on the IGC agenda, and incorporate these proposals into the more general reform of the Union' s legal system along the lines of what is being requested for the European Public Prosecutor?
There will also be the opportunity to find new common solutions and to analyse amendments from the committee debate.
Proposal for a resolution (B5-0125/2000) by Mr Dupuis and others, on behalf of the TDI Group, on the UN Commission on human rights
But, quite apart from this, we would like to emphasise that, if we are to strengthen the coherence of European Union policies in the present circumstances and in the economic situation currently facing the Union, we need to give serious consideration to various issues associated with the dynamics of the European Union itself.
Mr President, this draft framework decision represents the first time a common proposal on crime has been put forward, with legislation to be applied by all fifteen Member States at the same time.
I should like to end by saying that the planning of the new inter-state cooperation zones has taken no account of the Mediterranean' s geographical peculiarities, which would justify the creation of a special zone for coastal and island regions.
We must, however, admit that in financial terms we cannot proclaim a victory!
But I would rather like to say something else to you.
Even more serious is the government' s refusal to bring the leaders of the Khmer Rouge before an international tribunal.
We are familiar with the problems associated with this transitional stage, and it is this transition which has caused the greatest concern among our staff: we will therefore adopt the necessary security measures and put the necessary safeguards in place.
Earlier this year, we requested, here in this Chamber, that 8 March be made into an international holiday.
According to its President, it is in a position to do so.
Today, following the 1997 compromise, Member States can give public monopolies responsibility for the postal service involving mail and parcels whose distribution cost is less than five times the basic tariff, with a weight of less than 350 grammes.
The next item is the order of business.
I can tell you that the British Government is aware of its regulatory requirements on Objective 1 additionality.
I believe that European defence should be scrutinised by the European Parliament and by the national parliaments.
Although legislative measures and institutional intervention by Member States have been effective as far as the decision-making centres of the parties in power is concerned, the same cannot be said for the private sector.
Despite the steps taken thus far, these levels are still very high, and are unacceptably high as regards unemployment.
That really has to be the sharp focus the whole time.
A success which Parliament wishes and intends to see perpetuated, and this is why we also support amendment 14 outlining the fourth phase of the LIFE project.
There is also another hidden way of making workers redundant, as practised for example in Spain by the Ericsson company under the term 'externalising' . Note that sensitive words like 'redundancy' are not used.
In some cases, I get the impression that it is not about solidarity or alleviating the most desperate problems, but about propaganda and upholding vested interests in exchange for the European Union' s blessing.
The problems remain and this gives rise to doubts.
I consider it crucial that the LIFE instrument should remain open to the participation of candidate countries from central and eastern Europe.
I think it would be a good thing if we were to approve the present legislation together as soon as possible.
There is no intention whatsoever to create a transnational criminal law and judicial authority, rather the aim is to equip the Union with specific instruments for the protection of its financial interests, that is whilst upholding the principle of subsidiarity.
Mr Jonckheer, Mrs Thyssen and Mr Gemelli raised the issue of the state of preparation of the candidate countries in terms of competition in general and of State aid.
We must be sure that, in seeking allies in the area, we must not always choose anyone who offers.
Secondly, what does it propose to do about them?
This is a long way from offshoots such as the "Community criminal code" , the "European Public Prosecutor" or a European police force, with OLAF.
I would therefore once more ask you to ensure that we get a Dutch channel as well.
If Mrs Schreyer is to visit the Black Forest sometime in the next few days, then any one farmer might ask her how the Commission and Europe would be able to help him as an individual.
The text taken by Parliament is from the Directive which was adopted in 1998.
That is not only because it is about guaranteeing sufficient water resources but also because it is, to a large degree, about safeguarding water resources against pollution so that we can also have clean drinking water in the future.
Over the past couple of years, a considerable share of the funds has been channelled towards the development of agriculture and cattle breeding in the developing countries and, more especially, the Lomé countries.
In this area we have to work with the world as it is, and that means reacting in accordance with the facts of the situation.
The World Wide Web, which has enabled the meteoric development of the information society, was developed by CERN in Geneva, once again with public aid.
The recent laws on aliens adopted in my country, Spain, and in Belgium, are a reminder that there is an urgent need for the communitisation of immigration policy.
Five months are provided for this.
Hardly surprising, would you not agree, Mrs Avilés Perea, not because we failed to find the necessary candidates, but because recent scientific research, instigated by the Commission, has shown that quotas are, in fact, only useful if women are placed in the appropriate safe seats.
I would also like to thank the leader of the delegation in the Conciliation Committee, Mr Provan.
This clearly only applies to relations at national level as nothing is mentioned about the much-discussed European citizenship.
We can take fifteen years for the defence and security policy and foreign policy, but the process must be clear.
I heard Mr Kouchner speak at the Council of Europe ministerial meeting on this issue, and I think that many of the concerns he expressed then about the lack of resources needed to overcome some of the problems have now been addressed. In other words, he has been given these resources.
The challenge for the Commission and for ourselves is, however, to find the right mix.
But none of this hides the fact that there is a certain sense of impotence, because when the negotiators from each side fly back to the United States this weekend, we will have to remember that, for every 100 dollars spent on the peace process in the region, 60 are contributed by the European Union.
In addition, EQUAL should feed into the National Action Plans for employment and its implementation should be able to be monitored through these Action Plans.
As Mr Katiforis says, discards are a waste of resources which we cannot accept.
I am sure that you will agree, Mr President, and experience has shown us, that the process of enlargement of the Union is not without its pitfalls for both parties and the Czech Republic will need to make a great deal of effort in order to meet the accession criteria.
We have been discussing the Tobin tax proposal for twenty years and yet the question is still topical because we need really concrete and honest answers based on careful studies.
There are other differences that exist in the policy for inspections of disease, fallowing periods, restriction on movement of contaminated fish and materials and others. Before we jump to copy the slaughter policy of the Norwegians, we should try these other things first to see if we can mitigate the disaster.
I should especially like to thank my colleagues on the committee for their willingness to find compromises; the President and the Bureau for lending a sensitive ear to this complex issue; the Commission, and especially the Commissioner, for being such worthwhile contacts; the Council; and also the division responsible for servicing the committee, for its selfless work.
It has not yet been passed by the Council; it is at the consultation stage.
I nonetheless agree with the rapporteur that it is quite unacceptable that most Member States should still not have ratified this Agreement.
We all very much share this opinion.
The political will of this Parliament is required - and I can see that I can count on this - as well as that of the Council of Ministers.
All of these matters will be addressed in that legislation.
The next item is the report (A5-0013/2000) by Mr Knörr Borràs, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on a proposal for a Council Regulation amending Regulation (EC) No 3605/93 on the application of the Protocol on the excessive deficit procedure annexed to the Treaty establishing the European Community (COM(1999) 444 - C5-0174/1999 - 1999/0196(CNS))
For all these reasons, the French delegation of the UEN Group could not approve the McCarthy report.
This has been compounded, so some who advise me believe, by the Rules of Procedure in the French courts which make it well nigh impossible for non-French nationals to proceed against the French Government.
B5-0159/2000 by Mr Gasòliba i Böhm and Mr Sánchez García, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, on racist and xenophobic incidents in El Ejido (Spain);
In Norway, with their much longer experience, compulsory, 100% culling was abandoned some years ago and a range of measures have led there to a dramatically improved situation.
As it falls to the Commission to propose any such initiative, the Council has not yet been able to adopt a position on this issue.
To answer the concern whether there is a risk that a country might concentrate all the funds on one of the categories suffering discrimination, I will say that the initiative states clearly that the Member States must submit one thematic category for each group that is suffering discrimination.
In Agenda 2000, we have in my view prioritised policies that are of direct concern to citizens: food safety, water quality, environmental protection and rural development.
There is a need for more coordination, more exchange of information and a more coherent approach whereby any raised bids are avoided.
Madam President, I would like to express my support for the decision of the Conference of Presidents, and, since I publicly criticised the presidency in January, I would like to take this opportunity to say, both for myself and on behalf of the Socialist Group, that we now find the presidency' s statements on this issue to be appropriate, and we agree on their basis, their importance and their form.
Is there any prospect of membership?
It is at war, and a bloody war at that, which is dragging on and on.
Then it is logical to grant discharge, because how can the current Commissioner be blamed where 1997 is concerned?
On one hand, this policy encourages the integration of immigrants where it should favour their assimilation into the culture of the host country. This would prevent the development of ethnic ghettos which are nothing more than urban powder kegs.
The only way to prevent these events happening again, in a place where there are large communities of immigrant workers, is through social integration. This requires a firm economic, political and social commitment from the competent authorities.
They are no substitute for rigorous regular inspection.
I feel I speak for many smaller countries when I make that particular point.
Despite having signed these international agreements, this directive and the specific policies in the field reveal that Europe cannot achieve the objectives set or must defer these for so long that the very credibility of its signature of these international conventions is threatened.
What we need to avoid doing in the future is compromising competition conditions and disturbing the balance in the markets.
These technical changes will have a very real impact on the actual position of the countries, since the data will automatically be amended in line with the public deficit.
Tourism contributes to regional development - in rural areas that are maybe trying to diversify - and tourism contributes to urban areas that aim to raise the profile of their own cultural heritage.
Mr President, at the outset I wish to place on the official record of the House my thanks for the tremendous work undertaken by Mr Schmidt, our rapporteur.
In the United States the WIPO Treaty has already entered into force, having been enacted into law by means of the Digital Millennium Corporate Act and there they have managed to retain the delicate balance of the Treaty by means of this legislation.
President Prodi, today you have presented the Commission' s five-year programme, and it has many objectives that we endorse.
The third aspect that needs to be considered is European Union policy and Member States' policy.
Cars are one of the fastest growing sources of waste we have in Europe.
No farmer, anywhere in the world, will produce something if prices are too low.
For example, Mrs Maij-Weggen referred to both Indonesia and Burma and made some important points about both those countries and the human rights situation there.
(Applause from the PSE Group)
Expansion of the agenda and drastic revision of the treaties would bring with it a risk of de-stabilisation.
Like my own country, Sweden, the EU bases its view of human beings upon the equal, unique and inviolable value of every human.
With this vote, the European Parliament has accepted serious liability towards the people who elected it, by supporting an extreme neo-liberal economic and social policy; a policy which promotes the privatisation of absolutely everything, categorically opposes any form of public sector, overturns workers' employment, wage, social and insurance rights, imposes a policy of budgetary austerity which is acutely anti-social and unpopular and acts on behalf of employers by asking workers to become more attractive and employable if they want to find a job.
This peace process in the Middle East is one of the priorities of the European Union' s common foreign and security policy.
Consumers see their standard of living being eroded, poverty spreading and the public sector and production base in most countries in the Union being dismantled and dissolved in the name of unadulterated and catastrophic competition, in the name of the absolute market economy and the promotion of the monopolistic interests of big business.
We can set another example here, to the effect that Parliament is taking action to prevent mismanagement and in particular, fraud, and to mete out punishment where necessary.
Equality must permeate not only projects and programmes but also all overarching goals, action plans and strategies.
Subsidies distort allocations, both within and between countries.
An appeal in favour of a more pro-active government policy comes across as very odd.
They want to see the politics of success and believe that this is how any politically mature citizen could expect to be served
In October, a member of parliament belonging to the same party was abducted by uniformed men and not released until the ransom was paid.
Above all, it lacks drive in the sectors I have mentioned, for example, as regards the Balkans.
We want the UN embargo, which is supposed to prevent a large proportion of arms and ammunition from being flown across to UNITA airports, to stop.
How can we describe the rapes, the looting, the deliberate fires, the deportations, which are called "cleansing" , that recall the worst episodes of the Middle Ages in Europe?
I am very grateful to have this opportunity of contributing to the debate on the statement made by the High Representative.
However, if your response was to be that we should turn to "Mr CFSP" , that is, to Mr Solana, then I fear that this would constitute a one-sided approach to an external policy matter.
Mr President, Commissioner, in this minute and a half I should like, first of all, to congratulate Mrs Schroedter.
In addition to the objectives it is working towards, the strong point of the Community initiative INTERREG for the 2000-2006 programming period lies in its added value from the viewpoint of what is now the imminent enlargement of the European Union to include new Eastern European and Mediterranean countries.
On the one hand, by asking the Commission, within the scope of aid to the fishing industry, to implement special measures to compensate for the effects of this catastrophe on the industry in the areas affected, and also by asking them to demand, of international bodies and of themselves, tight controls on ships which sail under flags of convenience.
We have to find some way of putting pressure on such countries to do just that so we can reconnect with our citizens.
Secondly, Regulation 1762 must be repealed and replaced with a new regulation.
I believe that, as a beginning, Parliament is called upon to use the opportunity provided by the Geneva session to narrow that divide. It should adopt an approach that is not just a statement of principle but is an acknowledgement of the true situation and possibly even a pledge of support.
I would like to highlight the clear positions adopted against social dumping, together with the right to a basic level of social security, the goal of social convergence, and, in particular, the quite specific points that have been made about equal opportunities for women being the primary objectives of this social policy.
The most serious harm caused by the project, the damage to the Stegrennan mudflats, was only to be temporary, and the developers were liable for completely restoring the mudflats.
If there is to be a change to the present United Kingdom border arrangements, that change should be made by the United Kingdom Government and the United Kingdom Parliament and not en passant by the European legislative process.
On the contrary, we must take strength from knowing that the only social division which exists in the Basque Country is the abyss which separates those who kill, and those who support and express understanding for the latter, from the vast majority of the Basque people who simply want to live in peace and freedom.
Naturally, the Commission is also glad that the European Parliament' s prompt decision - and I hope the vote will be in favour - means the framework decision can enter into force very rapidly now, so that we can begin to transpose it.
No other Member State is at such a disadvantage.
The PSE Group of this House has suggested that preventing natural disasters, including preventing conflicts, is the best way of avoiding situations like the one now being suffered by the people of Mozambique.
We must not be afraid to go forward, to react to changes in the market.
What are the scenarios for development and the potential risks?
I support the objectives of this community action in the field of water policy.
It is a structure to which the European Union has given as much support as it can and to which the countries of the European Union have contributed in various ways.
The consequence of all this is a reassessment of development policies in response to the globalisation of economic and financial markets.
Let us remember what is at stake here.
As such, the agreement applies not only to fighting serious crimes and organised crime.
Why could not the sub-post office in a remote village also be put out to this sort of negative tender?
I have received eight motions for resolutions tabled in accordance with Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
Regarding the fight against organised crime, 1999 marked the implementation of several important actions stemming from the Vienna action plan, which resulted in the signing of the Charter of European Professional Associations, in developments in cooperation and in establishing points of contact between the Member States for receiving information relevant to the fight against money laundering. And I must not forget the Finnish Presidency' s proposal for a Council decision which is being considered in the Multi-disciplinary Group.
It is equally important to have strict hygiene requirements for the manufacture of additives and for proper controls to be carried out in the Member States.
On the contrary.
"We do not have the wherewithal for that," they said.
We still feel that economic and social cohesion is one of the Union' s fundamental objectives.
The first is a political and security committee, the second is a military committee representing the Chiefs of Staff of the fifteen Member States and the third committee is to make decisions on the European Union' s relations with third countries and other organisations.
Of all people, it is the Albanians, who are now being integrated into the transitional council, who ought in fact to have a little more idea as to what is in store for them.
This is just a quote from a newspaper article which appeared last week, commenting on the Union' s development policy.
I do not know if Mr Monti is aware of the judgement of the Court of Justice of the European Communities of last week, 10 February, which recognised the possibility of the German postal service being in a dominant position as a result of its holding a postal monopoly.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Members of the Commission, five months after its coming into office, the Commission committed to paper the direction in which it aims to steer the European Union.
I note, however, that the Member States and the regions are already actively preparing the programmes for INTERREG III and indeed the guidance project was distributed over three months ago now.
Lastly, the Commission has, in the recent past, had trouble managing the funds for development and humanitarian aid transparently, as Mrs Maes has just reminded us so opportunely.
Britain has re-opened its embassy in Khartoum.
On the contrary, we should concentrate on working out persuasive proposals on the necessary reforms, in collaboration with the Commission whose own proposals are worthy of note.
I say that as an entrepreneur who has a vested interest in this.
This latter issue may be particularly significant if it causes cost-push inflation. This is why we are continuing to talk about the need for a wages policy compatible with the definitions of inflation which we want to establish.
As far as the third phase of LIFE (2000-2004) is concerned, the instrument is to be divided into three sections, LIFE-Nature (47% of the resources), LIFE-Environment (47%) and LIFE-Third Countries (6%).
Today, one area after another is being compelled to introduce deregulation and liberalisation, an exercise in which the EU often leads the way, while the Commission's determination to make progress serves as a model.
We keep reminding them about Article 6 of the Treaty.
I understand I have been described in a Spanish newspaper as an enemy of the fishing industry because I have said such things.
We should approve this report because it highlights the need to maintain efficient legal control over our institutions, by protecting the Union' s financial system with a substantive and procedural European law which is capable of maintaining the credibility of the Community' s economic life.
A lot of people are all in favour of it until it arrives on their own doorstep.
Experience in other sectors show a sort of U-curve pattern: a phase of reduction in employment starts just before liberalisation takes place, as, of course, the incumbent prepares itself to be competitive; then a second phase of steady employment, as new jobs in newcomer operators balance further potential employment reductions; finally, a third phase of net job creation, both in the incumbent and new operators as the benefits of liberalisation reach users and the market develops more quickly.
A new institution is being created, an assembly which, in the future, will monitor the agreement and its consequences.
There are too many rights, too many regulations and too little room for leadership.
I disagree, however, for this very reason, with the senseless actions taken by the Presidency - the Portuguese Presidency unfortunately - which have resulted in a real institutional blunder on behalf of the other fourteen States.
The Commission should also pay attention to coherence between the various policies which are in place. It should make URBAN projects coherent with future projects in budget lines entitled 'sustainable urban policy' .
On 14 December 1999, a five year-old boy called Clément was found in a sleeping-car on the Calais-Ventimiglia train, crying for his mother who was taking him to visit his sick grandmother.
The common position is in this respect a farce, a document with no strings attached and a true affront in the light of the OSPAR agreements.
The rapporteur has already hinted at this in no uncertain terms, namely, the issue of interethnic relations.
It is regrettable that we do not have any instrument with which to give assistance in situations like this.
To put it plainly, the level of state aid declared, roughly speaking, is generally stable during the period under discussion and comes to approximately 1.2% of Community GDP or more or less the equivalent, coincidentally, of the Community budget for one year.
For example, a major problem in my country is the diversion of rivers and the consumption of water from lakes, which people try to justify by pseudo-developmental arguments, and which, of course, are a great risk to ground waters, water tables and surface waters.
My friend Jacques Poos will be talking about this on behalf of my Group.
Examples have been given in Spain of Michelin and ABB-Alsthom and my colleagues will give examples for Italy.
This spurs us to maintain that the European Parliament would have done sterling work in guaranteeing that civil rights and freedoms were safeguarded, if this were a lawmaking parliament and if we were, as part of this procedure, in fact co-legislators - which we are not.
While, on the one hand, we believe that steering committees should ensure that the various projects are coherent and complementary, we would on the other hand urge the Commission to reinforce exchanges of information and coordination between the departments involved.
The debate is closed.
Possibilities for faster and more simple operation do exist.
The plight of Kosovar Albanians who have been missing since the end of the war is particularly distressing.
The debate is closed.
Will it make it a condition that negotiations can only start if the blockade is lifted because, in the final analysis, we are all neighbours and we want to cultivate positive neighbourly relations inside the European Union?
Human rights
The epilogue to this disaster must surely be the urgent adoption of measures to minimise the damage and to prevent this happening again in the future.
(The President cut the speaker off)
It is concerned with increased integration which, as part of a duplicitous package, involves increased repression and control.
I think the lines that you have set up regarding the Food Safety Authority are a recognition of reality.
Can such matters be controlled from Brussels?
We are looking for solutions.
Ideally the European Parliament' s representatives should be able to support Cuba' s intent at those proceedings, as our parliamentary colleagues from the ACP countries will no doubt be doing.
I believe that the streamlined information to be made available will be of major benefit and importance to the decision makers and to their advisers and will go some way to ensure a more sustainable fishery that will continue to provide jobs in parts of the Union where there is no alternative source of employment.
During the last few days we have seen Serbs murdered by Kosovar Albanian Mafia-type groups, also with impunity.
How, though, is the Union to be enlarged if we do not do the job properly now, i.e. before enlargement takes place?
As to the proposal to establish a maximum custodial sentence of not less than eight years, I do not think that this will raise any problems as far as my country is concerned, even though the maximum sentence for counterfeiting under its criminal code is currently five years in prison, as it has already expressed willingness to make this amendment.
Mr President, the scope and highly detailed nature of the proposals for necessary reform measures show just how important these reforms are.
But do you envisage that the Food Safety Agency will have enough teeth to prevent something like the beef war that we have had and France's refusal to lift the ban?
With what aim?
The same goes for Cuba, Mr Modrow.
We are in favour of competition as a component of the social market economy, and of course we are also in favour of it because we want this economic system to be as successful as possible.
Let us not pretend that national parliaments are able to exercise effective democratic control of government activities in this area.
These are some of the basic reasons why we do not agree with the aims of the motion for a resolution now before us.
The unease is justified.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Hudghton, also for this report.
And why should we not note that the Commission' s communication stipulates specifically that it considers a 40% minimum level to be a crucial goal for women' s participation at all levels in the implementation and management of research programmes?
You are being realistic when you say that the welfare state can no longer provide adequate responses to the problems facing us, including unemployment.
Some seven years ago, it still looked like the European water policy was going to be sacrificed on the altar of subsidiarity.
Mr President, postal services and post offices seem to be very topical in Parliament at the moment and rightly so, given their importance.
I have already referred to the regional and savings bank sector, but I would just like to focus on a matter one hears again and again in certain quarters.
We would have preferred to have had greater clarification of the agenda and more guarantees on the method before giving our opinion, and frankly, we did not appreciate the discourtesy the Portuguese Presidency showed towards the European Parliament by scheduling the start of the Intergovernmental Conference for Saint Valentine' s day, the first day of the Strasbourg part-session.
Let us point out that Parliament' s positions were clearly defined and that the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance supported them.
But, as Mr Lange so rightly said, this solution is totally unfair to European car manufacturers.
In all matters, we attach importance to the fact that there should be the greatest possible transparency in connection with the decision-making procedures involved in EU cooperation, for example with a view to guaranteeing the necessary democratic control.
It is evident from the packaging directive in which this 50/50 compromise is included that this does not work.
We believe that justice should be done in this case, but this is not the most appropriate procedure.
Many of the general points raised in our committee's report have been covered in Mrs van der Laan's report.
As you know, both we and the Council have addressed this issue appropriately.
I want to repeat that honourable Members, like the honourable Member who asked the question, who take a particular interest in this issue, will want to have a dialogue about it.
I could reel off the list of disasters that have afflicted this industry in my 10 years in this Parliament but I only have three minutes.
I should also like to point out that the Beijing Declaration emphasises the importance of having the institutional capacity to introduce a perspective of equality into all environmental programmes.
So, the reform will lead to the various national competition cultures being transplanted and taking root in the European competition culture - where today various small plants thrive, and they are certainly not all the same.
You said in your summary, Commissioner Prodi, that liberalisation, competitiveness, keeping inflation low, innovation, science and technology are central for the future success of the European economy and creating jobs.
Mrs Schroedter, you quite rightly pointed out that while it is chiefly up to the Member States and the regions to define their own priorities in development matters, European Union cofinancing of the programmes requires, and is the justification for, a situation where Community priorities as debated and approved in this House should also be taken into account in order to promote this Community aspect of economic and social cohesion which many of you forcefully pointed out.
Drawing to a close, I should like to focus on a number of challenges which you reiterated, Mrs Schroedter.
As regards funding, EUR 613 million is not enough. Even EUR 850 million is not enough.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution before us today is important because of its subject and the desire to protect the rule of law and press freedom. It is also very important because of the broad consensus which has finally been reached after some heated discussions behind the scenes.
Let us therefore ensure that in future any euro spent in the Russian Federation is spent to alleviate the suffering of the people who are the victims of war, to the exclusion of any other objective.
This is what is at stake now in Cambodia unless the leaders of the previous oppressive regime are bought to justice.
Finally, and I think this is important: why not have the honesty today to relay what was disclosed in a recent UN study explaining that, if Spain wishes to preserve its work, retirement and pension potential, it is no good just giving 30 000 immigrants a year legal status; it needs to be prepared to accept 12 million immigrants between now and the year 2050?
Take Sudan.
Secondly, let me say quite clearly and plainly that we want to open the way to and offer FYROM accession to the European Union.
The debate is closed.
Finally, Mr Radwan, of course, there should be limits to competition and there are limits to competition.
Both in Rwanda and Kosovo, the UN, despite the many warnings, appeared to be overtaken by events and stood by as a helpless observer of the massacres, as President Havel pointed out this afternoon.
The second recommendation in this report relates to assessing the legitimacy of the investigative measures undertaken by OLAF in the various European institutions.
Mr President, I want to say that I share the other rapporteurs' delight at the fact that better opportunities are now to be glimpsed for making further progress in Cyprus in the light of the improvement in relations between Turkey and the EU and between Turkey and Greece.
Our response must be rapid.
The key task of the authority will be risk assessment in the area of food safety.
Employment issues are at present the core concern regarding tourism.
That is why the services are already trying to revise the text, simplify its structure and make its wording easier to grasp.
Control is a Member State competence and the Council has recently adopted a list of serious infringements aimed at coordinating to some extent the severity with which similar violations are viewed in different countries.
For the friends and relatives of the victims this is a human tragedy and for their political families it is a political tragedy, but I feel that we are also witnessing a cultural tragedy, in that the culture of death and of violence is constantly gaining ground against the culture of respect for others, democracy and democratic life.
And no one can comprehend this attitude.
The problem considered by the motion is a major one but, as has already been touched upon, could be regarded as minor in light of the even greater problem of the general situation in Angola which is experiencing a terrible humanitarian disaster.
Therefore, we will have to see how the requirements guaranteeing the maximum degree of safety can be further improved.
Another positive development I would like to remind you of is the fact that the old UCK is now bound up in the reconstruction of the country.
Yes, Jean-Claude Martinez was indeed right to interrupt you, Daniel Cohn-Bendit. In every case, it is follow-my-leader syndrome.
The situation varies to an enormous degree throughout the regions.
We want to promote better enforcement of that legislation and to provide greater transparency to consumers.
Beyond this, we have concerns that the "flexibility" or enhanced cooperation suggestion is not appropriate at present.
Commissioner, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can be quite frank in saying that I welcome the Council's common position on harmonising the training of safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterway.
I will set this out in five points.
I do not have confirmation of this at present, and nor do I expect it, since we have not yet held direct talks.
It makes us realise that the victory of democracy is never definitive, and that we have to work to convince and keep on convincing.
Please allow me to remark on how well-versed and well-informed he is on European affairs.
That should be the starting point for our efforts.
Should Nato not at the very least acknowledge fault for its deliberate targeting of the Belgrade TV tower and killing over 20 civilian journalists, which remains a severe moral blemish on the conduct of the war and now opens the embarrassment of a possible indictment for war crimes against our Western leaders?
Mr Langen mentioned that the implementation budget proposed by the Council was initially FF 74 million, whereas the Commission proposed 81.1 million, a figure which the European Parliament supported.
Having tried for many years to persuade us by talking of shared sovereignty, you are now revealing your ultimate goal. You intend to trade in all European sovereignty, whether national or collective, for a world government in which you do not even expect to obtain a dominant position.
That is the time to debate some of these problems of detail.
And since this is St. Valentine' s day, as a former Mayor of a regional city, I propose that we should all declare our love for all the European regions which need that love.
Clearly this is not a general exemption and the different approach which allow Member States to introduce special provisions are only justified in the case of this special professional qualification.
This will determine the success of our work.
As far as I know, that has still not happened.
But the source is threatening to run dry.
The Commission is allocating 67 million pounds towards the INTERREG III programme, which will be spent on continuing the development of cross-border economic projects between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland.
For its part, the Commission supports this, but we cannot at this point produce new reports on the whys and wherefores.
As an integral part of a value-added structure, the White Paper proposes that the authority would have a major role in risk communication: to disseminate complex scientific information in a consumer-friendly way; to be the obvious and indispensable port of call for the most up-to-the-minute data on risk; to be highly visible; to tell the good news story about food; to be proactive.
These have, in fact, clarified that the freedom to provide services must allow for third-country nationals to be taken on as employees of cross-border services and this without having to obtain work permits.
I think that a number of MEPs will make reference to this.
How can we do this?
With regard to political prisoners in Serbia, Mr MacCormick, it is obvious that, when I say that in Serbia today Mr Milosevic is not acting in accordance with the rules of a decent society at international level, I am referring specifically, not just to the way he acts towards his fellow citizens. I am also referring to the way Mr Milosevic treats political prisoners, and the way he attacks democratic rights and the opposition' s rights of access to the media, and to his attacks on the facilities that should be granted to non-governmental organisations, particularly those protecting human rights.
The Commission proposal accords the Commission a central role in establishing guidelines on competition policy.
My second question is much more direct and perhaps more awkward.
The same when the floods came in France and the same again now.
We are not deluding ourselves by believing that, once agreement is obtained, the mandate we are giving the Commission today could constitute a first major step towards peace and stability in that long-suffering region, where the people have already shown they have the right to seek membership of our area of freedom and development.
I lodged a written complaint on the same subject to Commissioner Vitorino on 23 December.
Union Economy (1999)
The Commission accepted five of the proposed amendments including the budgetary allocation and I thank the Commission for their continued support on the budget during the conciliation procedure as what the Council had proposed was unacceptable.
Firstly, I believe the issue raised by the President of the Socialist Group yesterday about the reinstatement of the debate with the President of the Commission on the five-year strategic programme was sufficiently important for other speakers who wished to comment briefly on that matter to have been accommodated.
That is what Culture 2000 represents.
We need to wait and see what happens there.
I would very much hope that we can all live on a planet which is also inhabited by the European Council, the General Affairs Council and Ecofin.
We have to offer solutions which, while provisional, help to provide a faster and more effective system of justice.
Greater transparency will also help to achieve public acceptance of decisions relating to competition policy.
After shellfish, the slump is now affecting crustacean sales.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have talked a lot about the future, about what the Commission will do, and what the Presidency will do in Lisbon, etc. However, you also said something which I find particularly frightening.
I must highlight the part of the report which states that, in 1975, with regard to the size of bluefin tuna, a minimum limit of 6.4 kg with a 15% tolerance in the number of fish was recommended for the entire Atlantic.
From a democratic point of view, I actually find this accumulation of responsibilities unacceptable. This is exacerbated by the fact that Mr Solana is, of course, not a democratically elected politician, but a high official who is not accountable to any parliament.
Take a large successful business, add European regulations, and within months you have created a small one.
It would also appear to be in the Union' s interest for all Member States to help protect the euro, especially Sweden, Denmark, the United Kingdom and Greece, which will not be introducing the euro on 1 January 2002.
I shall say that something is already taking shape in Berlin and in the financial instruments available to us which may be a policy on cohesion for the first countries who are going to join us.
Unfortunately, it is necessary to point out again that we do not have equality.
Mr President, the problem is one of public honour in this Parliament, it is not a personal statement.
We will support the motion for a resolution in support of this study, but we simply insist that, as this motion for a resolution points out, it is by means of liberalisation and opening up at an international level that we will achieve economic progress, both on the level of states and on a general level.
The rapporteur has made laudable efforts, which should not go unnoted and for which I would like to thank him.
And should the directive be retrospective to cover every car that has ever been made?
The efforts already being made need to be stepped up.
In view of this problem, which seems to me to be the most serious, the Fisheries Committee report improves the proposal in certain important points, particularly with the rapporteur' s suggestion of more reasonable submission deadlines and the request for monitoring by the Commission.
While we are on the subject, where one would expect a firm declaration of intent to defend European interests in the numerous trade conflicts under way, one merely finds the desire to eliminate conflict, which hardly sounds like determination on the part of the Commission to fight its corner.
How are we to deal with the transfer of the national post office' s business abroad?
The European Council also considered it important to step up the prevention of illegal immigration.
This, I thought, is no longer permissible, certainly not at the moment.
The European Union is the single largest contributor, with 80 million pounds to the International Fund for Ireland.
I therefore think it is crucial for the environment that the ban on using poisonous heavy metals should be fully implemented and that we should not reduce manufacturers' liability.
Mr Evans, legal certainty is, of course - and I am the first to acknowledge this - important for businesses, not just for the legal professions, although the latter do play an extremely important role in the construction of Europe.
Thus, while complimenting Mr Viceconte on his report and finding a great deal in the resolution to commend, we shall be asking for a number of split votes to allow these concerns to be addressed.
Fine words, as is the case again today, but no report. It is too crazy for words, really.
- (IT) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last July, here in your presence, I made a solemn commitment to reform the Commission.
Mr President, I too would like to start by congratulating Mrs Lienemann on her excellent work.
You did not call me either.
So we have really worked through this document and I am sure that they are all able to describe the guidelines and the principles as laid down in this document.
Our relationship with Armenia, as evinced by the agreement we signed with that country last year, is of course one element in these foreign relations.
The first is the inclusion of a legal base in the Treaty.
In this respect, we are faced with the most sensitive issue: what role would a European Public Prosecutor play in relations with the individual national communities and their domestic legal systems?
Of course, this is shared by the whole Commission.
Why then is it curious and why do we have reservations when it comes to a legislative commitment on the representation of half the population.
In the final analysis, water protection is not just a social question, it is a decisive social question, which is why the polluter pays principle must be applied more rigorously as otherwise we all bear the consequences.
Here there are only three which the Commission cannot accept, Amendments Nos 3, 12 and 13.
We must ask ourselves a fundamental question: how can we ensure that Union policy interfaces with the subsidiary national policies for regional development?
(The President cut the speaker off)
I see that a diplomat from the Council is present who is diligently taking notes and who will then report to the Council but, for the rest, nothing will get done.
I think that very tough demands should be made of the car industry.
I would like to warn against a blurring of standards in the assessment of human rights situations in Africa, where violations are viewed as a necessary evil.
A considerable stumbling block is the fact that the regions and other operators find it impossible and are incapable of making plans in time.
Report (A5-0104/1999) by Mr Koch, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 94/55/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road (COM(1999)0158 - C5-0004/1999 - 1999/0083(COD))
Nevertheless, I regret that a clear alternative has not been proposed.
On south-eastern Europe, I agree with your view that we measure political institutions through their achievements.
However, we, the Parliament and, in particular, the group of the Social Democrats, want Lisbon to go one step further now.
This, as well as the deficiencies in the networks of infrastructures and services and a generally very low level of employment, which furthermore is seasonal and lacks diversity, exacerbates the exodus from rural areas.
We believe we have respected that commitment, and indeed this was made relatively easy by the climate of trust and mutual respect evident throughout the negotiations with the Commission.
According to the Rules of Procedure, you are not required to reply.
They will lock in the economic reforms, just as national and economic reforms will be stabilised by both parties' commitments under the agreements.
We are perfectly aware of the difficult and dramatic humanitarian situation in Kosovo and of the problem of displaced people in that region - and I mean people who originate from Kosovo - and of the particular effect of this on child health and on mortality rates.
As far as we in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development are concerned, so far so good.
But these regions need to take real account of positive and negative experiences in other tourist sectors.
But the discussion needs to begin and we are therefore calling on the IGC to start discussions.
Secondly, LIFE is an instrument that has already produced good results, and has enabled innovative methods and techniques to be developed and has an excellent rate of implementation.
Europe should not be completely absent, as the states tend to want.
Madam President, I had the same experience as Mr Medina Ortega yesterday.
Without protection under intellectual property law, creativity is inhibited and financial incentives obstructed.
Mr President, with the implementation of INTERREG III, European cooperation policy is entering a new phase.
That statement could not be much clearer.
They see a beautiful planet, teeming with life, but they see its atmosphere being polluted and warming up.
Mr President, I need not repeat what the rapporteur said or the points Mr Coelho made. All that is indeed very true and correct.
In adopting the water directive on Wednesday 15 February, the European Parliament confirmed its wish to protect surface water, coastal wasters, inland waters and groundwater.
How negotiations are proceeding there, we still do not know.
The Commission supports any effort aimed at the settlement of the disputes between Turkey and Armenia and regrets that there has not yet been any normalisation of relations between these two countries.
As in the past, these rules state that the additionality principle applies to the relationship between the Structural Funds and all development expenditure of the Member State.
Improving the efficiency, transparency and methodology of procedures for the implementation of LIFE, procedures for information and the dissemination of such information to the public, and procedures for cooperation between recipients;
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
It seems evident that they would do this in joint cooperation, which would work very well.
We failed at the General Assembly last year on a fallacious pretext, I refer to article 2.7, which we are otherwise happy to adopt for all other texts.
Working conditions are so hard and so deplorable that no Spaniard will accept them.
I would also like to advocate coherence in the Commission' s policy from these different vantage points, unlike my predecessor, who holds the belief that there is no need for rules.
In the current situation, we should say to the Russians "If you want money, if you want us to reduce your debts, you must allow a civilian peacekeeping force into Russia" .
We must reject what is unacceptable, as our constituents demand.
This is the dual objective which I believe should be pursued. On the one hand, we must maintain programmes on, for example, infrastructure, preparations - still premature - for free trade, and encouragement of economic and commercial cooperation between the countries in the area, and on the other, it is now appropriate to create a model of closer integration with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia as an example of the policy.
When it comes to acceptance by the Council, I can only urge the Commission to adopt as many of the amendments adopted by Parliament as possible, even if some of them deviate substantially from the original Commission proposals.
How do we respond therefore to the fact that women are excluded?
First of all, the immunity of officials: this should be lifted if and when requested by a national prosecutor.
I also believe that Parliament' s proposed amendments should make it easier for the Council to adopt the directives as opposed to the Commission' s proposal.
We create an investment facility to support the development of the private sector.
This is the first point on which there is a certain amount of disagreement.
To wish to proceed in any other way would be to distort the spirit of our institutions.
Secondly, it makes sense to issue provisions for genetically-modified feedingstuff additives similar to the regulations in seed marketing legislation, as the rapporteur has said.
Ladies and gentlemen, on this point we must make it clear: in the context of subsidiarity, the selection of zones or municipalities eligible for URBAN is primarily the responsibility of the Member States.
This social freedom, which becomes manifest in initiatives favouring the poor, gives excellent results in terms of social justice and stability.
It will participate in crisis management in order to help where there is war or situations of conflict, to re-establish calm and to take the heat out of these situations and also to avoid them. As you may recall, it was in this respect that the Helsinki Summit intelligently agreed to form a force of 60 000 soldiers from all the Member States.
I would assure Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf that it is by no means my intention or wish to have any clash or test of strength with Parliament on this issue.
First of all, the policy comes too late.
But the agreement we are reaching today should not be regarded as a backward step compared with the Plumb/Delors Agreement.
I cannot forbear telling you about an occasion when the expression cost-effective was used by people whom one cannot perhaps imagine using it, namely when I was on a visit to Africa.
Let us use this not only for the benefit of our own populations but also for that of the developing countries.
I believe that biodiversity is good, as is cultural diversity, but not diversity in the application of the law with regard to the essential core of the internal market, that is to say, competition law.
Everyone knows that the peace process is a protracted and difficult affair but we are convinced that, with the necessary trust, perseverance and indispensable political will, our common goal, namely a peaceful and prosperous Middle East, will be achieved.
I therefore thank the Commission and the Council for having made a statement on the coherence of Community policies in relation to development, because this demonstrates a will to make policy in this area more effective.
When one considers the events that have set these endeavours in motion though, it is only too clear as to why there is a need for them.
In common with the other Members, I call for Parliament to have codecision rights where competition law is concerned.
We are currently reviewing the options and possibilities for introducing a death penalty resolution in the Human Rights Commission.
Where the Community can step in is to put the local activators in touch with each other so that they can actually not re-invent the wheel in every region.
A system, such as the current one, which is capable of making so few decisions, be they approvals or prohibitions, is something less than a valid system.
Sound, factual information is in the best interests of the industry.
And the figures still give Europe cause for concern.
Relating to Friday, on Friday morning we have an oral question on postal services and the Group of the Party of European Socialists is requesting that the motions for resolutions should be put to the vote immediately after the debate and not in Brussels, as envisaged in the final version of the draft agenda.
As the European Parliament, we can express our solidarity primarily by taking action in order to ensure the immediate release of emergency aid to the families affected by the oil slick and, at the same time, demanding tightening up of the quality criteria, on the European and international scale, of the regulations and standards governing the safety of sea transport, stipulating much more frequent inspection and sanctions that are a far greater deterrent to offenders.
The problem of water is becoming increasingly topical.
You perhaps know that, in Finland, the president is not just the leading public figure or political leader, but she is also commander-in-chief of the armed forces, so this was quite an interesting and historic occasion.
The Commission' s analysis has in fact shown that, although classified as high income countries by the World Bank, Cyprus and Malta have the same difficulties as the CEECs in transposing Community law due to their lack of administrative and judicial capacity.
Mr President, I think it is extremely important to point to the present communication' s guidelines for using the precautionary principle as a way of repudiating assertions to the effect that we always want to use the principle for protectionist reasons.
Mr President, the European Parliament is today facing an important decision.
This may, of course, be seen as an issue concerning the internal market, but also as a public health matter for the whole EU.
I will close by quoting one of the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, which needs no further comment: "Water is not a commercial product like any other but, rather, a heritage which belongs to the peoples of the European Union and which must be protected, defended and treated as such" .
It has no right to do so.
What measures is the Commission taking to facilitate opportunities for the disabled in this area?
We were among the small number who denounced the communist dictatorship.
Today, we are turning a blind eye to the involvement of NATO occupation forces in the savage ethnic cleansing of the Serbs and non-Albanian speaking minorities.
The conclusion is that we must make the case for guidelines to be broad, indicative and flexible to assist our programme managers and fund-users and to get the maximum potential out of our new fields of regeneration.
We all, I believe, agree in our condemnation of the xenophobia and racism which was apparent in certain actions.
However, out of all the points, two specifically require our attention, and they are closely linked: peace and stability within Europe and outside Europe.
Firstly he talked about verification.
So, for example, the island of Réunion is located on a trade axis between the countries of southern Africa and those of south-east Asia.
I believe that this proposal should remain, as a common European taxation code would diminish rather than enhance the workings of the European Union.
Macroeconomic policies, the stability pact and the criteria for nominal convergence have put a brake on modernising social protection which would improve the quality of people' s lives, specifically by means of a significant increase in pensions and pension schemes, particularly of the minimum pensions, and through fighting social exclusion.
It has never been done in south-east Asia, it has never been done in Europe, and I can understand why Mr Karas from Austria has left the chamber, given Austria' s financial record.
- The European Parliamentary Labour Party has abstained on the final vote on the Leinen Dimitrakopoulos Report.
Firstly, the motion does not condemn clearly enough the vagueness of the priorities and commitments indicated in the Commission' s programme.
(The sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. for a formal sitting on the occasion of an address by Mr Vaclav Havel, President of the Czech Republic and resumed at 12.50 p.m.)
The message contained in the joint text is still valid.
The Commission' s communication recommends that experience should be more widely shared, a high-level group formed and benchmarking introduced.
Strasbourg, 17 February" .
The events in Austria make it crystal clear that we need a body or structure for democracy in Europe and we need to establish principles which provide bases all the Member States.
Through the agreement, the European Parliament will automatically be sent the relevant material in connection with decisions made in accordance with the rules under Article 251 of the Treaty.
Our assistance programmes in the fields of democratisation and human rights should continue to build confidence in general and, in particular, to try to build confidence between the various communities.
Despite the obvious reasons for any internal tension, both population groups have struck a reasonable modus vivendi and the outlook for reaching a sound solution to the remaining problems is good.
We need to consider it together, so that the new Objective 1 programmes and the plans for regional development, which have been drafted before the directives come into force, can be submitted for revision and proper assessment.
The first concerns the forthcoming European Councils in June and December, without counting the extraordinary Council meeting in Lisbon.
I should like to ask the Commissioner if she can provide any approximate deadlines in connection with this matter, for it is a problem which needs clarification in the context of the Danish socio-political debate.
And I should point out that, for the first time in history, a case of scrapie was detected in Austria about four weeks ago.
The debate is closed.
Now, following the Amsterdam Treaty, the rights of information and control granted to the European Parliament in the past need to be enshrined anew in an interinstitutional agreement.
(Applause from the PSE Group)
We are therefore making progress towards the aim of developing and confirming the status of the European Union as an area of freedom, security and justice, as expressed at Tampere.
It is remarkable that, now they have the opportunity to do so, none of them is demanding any change in the direction taken by monetary union.
In Zambia 25% of teachers have died of AIDS.
I believe this system is also more suited to practical needs.
Otherwise the postal services can be left to all the demands and constraints of the marketplace.
We - the Commission - are the first to know that we must have a total rethink, and we shall therefore do two things: we are, and will continue to be, fully committed to internal reform, and we shall rethink our policies in detail.
One also wonders whether this 'coordinated modernisation strategy' is not just another misrepresentation of the coordinated and headlong attack on social protection and security and on the acquired rights of working people.
Those structural problems which make unemployment higher in Europe than in the United States will become even greater.
For the Commission has been asked to report, as it will in the first half of next year, on the progress in transposing it in the Member States, on whether the serious nature of this issue is being matched by serious action.
Question No 2 by (H-0024/00):
. (NL) Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating the rapporteur on the work that she has carried out.
But in Belgium too, there are a great number of people, older people for example, who only see one other person in the day and that is the postman.
The debate is suspended and will resume at 9 p.m.
There is no contradiction between the two.
.
The police forces which have been sent out do not have the manpower to stop what is going on.
You have not highlighted the ageing of our population which will fundamentally alter the structure of our society, not only economically but also in terms of public health.
For in the course of the next few years, the proportion of renewable energy sources is to double, accounting for at least 12% of energy consumption.
The real problem is not finding a legal way of slightly complicating redundancy procedures, but banning them.
. (FR) I share the overriding sense of deep and keen dissatisfaction expressed during the debate.
Our motion will give you a great deal of food for thought, Commissioner, but there is one point that I would just like to go into now. Transparency and accountability belong together.
Yes, I would say we already use this way of working with different, difficult issues like a new chemical strategy for example.
For example, the LIFE-Nature project in France, at Grand-Lieu Lake, planned without any coordination, led to a real ecological disaster, the de-silting operation which was carried out without regard for French law on the subject caused significant silting of the Acheneau, a water course located downstream, destroying spawning beds, filling wetlands, and who knows what else.
The Greek Government acknowledges the problem of its being unable to record human resources entering and leaving work and is therefore committed, firstly, to restructuring public sector employment services in Greece, secondly, to setting up efficient employment promotion centres - this programme has already started but has not yet been completed - and, thirdly, to introducing a system of electronic employment cards and using suitable IT systems to monitor all these policies.
Otherwise, in my view, we are beavering away at the symptoms, but not the causes.
It is today an area for the free movement of goods and persons, in which there are no frontiers to crime, but in which significant barriers still exist to those whose duty it is to combat crime.
Social Europe, used as a foil by the EU, has simply been eliminated from the agenda.
We would then have a voice in NATO through this European pillar.
This is enough reason to thank Mrs Lienemann for the efforts she has made to obtain sound surface water.
I also think that a great effort has been made to arrive at intelligent recycling of materials, a reduction of polluting waste and the promotion of technological innovation.
The Commission proposal aims to ensure a more pragmatic approach towards controlling a disease that has the potential to cause important losses in salmon farms.
Before the vote:
A document is circulating at the moment - not at a low level, but at a high level within the Commission - which, instead of enhancing the public nature of documents, is having the opposite effect.
The nations, regions, towns and communities of Europe will be preserved.
Yesterday when I arrived in Parliament I was handed a document relating to a proposed demonstration by the assistants outside the doors of Parliament.
It is a definite and concrete issue. It is about our common currency.
The consequences do not inspire hope.
I believe that this is the first objective for us to pursue.
But NATO' s decision for military intervention and the KLA' s support for the armed forces had a devastating effect and have reduced Kosovo to a colony, as well as destroying civil infrastructures in Serbia.
These NGOs will be concentrating on the areas of water and sanitation, provision of shelter, plastic sheeting, jerry cans, blankets, those sorts of things.
This is the sort of thing that we want to avoid.
Oil slick off the French coast
I see no reason why licensing arrangements cannot be organised across Europe for collection centres to scrap the 8 to 9 million vehicles which are disposed of within the European Union on an annual basis.
Following this interview, the representatives of this Forum presented her with a text entitled "Strasbourg Declaration" . The President wishes to specify that under no circumstances does she sanction the terms of this "declaration" .
No, equality means that we all participate in both working life and family life.
We need to have a long memory when it comes to the demands being made in the ports.
For the information of our colleagues, I must say here that the corresponding contingents should be divided into three parts: one third to prepare the mission, one third to carry it out and one third for rehabilitation, following often difficult ordeals for personnel and equipment.
Mr Prodi said in his very important opening statement that he had identified severe problems in the Commission about low morale and low motivation, and clearly that is a major concern.
A drop in the ocean, I might say, in comparison with Europe' s structural policies.
I am absolutely convinced that it will be easier for us to achieve consensus in the Council on this basis.
I have left to the end a question that I regard as fundamental and which I think needs to be noted and approved by this House.
It is nevertheless necessary to reach agreement as soon as possible on a new convention which will also take other, even more delicate issues into account: the whole issue of double jeopardy, that of specialities, and that of the credibility of one Member State of the Union in respect of the judicial authorities of other Member States of the Union.
I also happen to know that the high tax on alcohol products in Sweden goes back to the year 1638 and that since then, the sale of alcohol products has accounted for a significant portion of the state' s tax revenue.
This coordination is at present lacking, and the Commission has not as yet made any precise proposals to improve it.
Provided that the Member State does not reduce all its own expenditure, the Structural Funds are added to the national expenditure and the principle of additionality is therefore respected.
But at this stage I should like to make an observation, which is not technical, but more philosophical and taken from practice.
The Commission is acutely aware of this situation and of the need for people to feel basic security in difficult times of change.
The Europe we are building is born of the bitter experiences we have all suffered, and the Socialist Group condemns the insults which have been directed at the President of the French Republic and the Belgian Government, but also at the Socialists, who are European citizens as well, because, at the moment, the Austrian Socialists are being described as traitors to their country.
My feeling in this respect is that only a Council Regulation can provide the necessary legal certainty and ensure an official ban on any aid not covered by the code.
In March of last year, a member of Sam Rengie' s party was killed by a group of men in military uniform in the province of Kandal.
Although it is currently impossible to calculate how many people have died, we do know that around 80 000 are in imminent danger of drowning and 300 000 have lost their homes and crops.
We are proposing a system which considerably improves legal certainty for SMEs.
.
In Grozny, there are now approximately 20 000 people in a desperate situation who have to walk miles and miles to get something to eat.
That requires greater efficiency which, in turn, is dependent on competition.
I worked in Africa 30 years ago, and it was poor and underdeveloped but the problems are now more catastrophic.
This is supposed to be our priority, would you believe.
In my opinion, the timetable is not too ambitious if we believe that by 2020 we will no longer allow impurities in water and we aim at zero level quantities of impurities and toxic matter by then.
. (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I wish to express my satisfaction with the agreement reached on the ALTENER II programme in the Conciliation Committee and associate myself with the comments of the different speakers and, of course, point out that this agreement will allow the ALTENER programme to be incorporated soon into the framework energy programme.
A question has been put by Mrs Villiers who referred to enhancing portfolio management.
Surely this is contrary to interests of public order within the Member States.
Thirdly: the extension to Parliament' s rights in this context.
It is, moreover, also accepted as an important and effective tool.
I shall not keep saying that I am disappointed, because you need to hope in order to be disappointed.... and I have had no hope since the investiture debate.
I am thinking of the contributions from Mr Bonde and Mr Sjöstedt who point out that the present contribution contains a string of relatively unconscious but undoubtedly rational initiatives dictated by the desire for power and pointing in the direction of a centralist and federalist EU.
The Treaty of Amsterdam reiterates the priority criteria for prevention, for the implementation of the 'polluter pays' principle and for sustainable development through an environmental impact assessment.
Social policy must facilitate employment, creating incentives for employers and employees to, respectively, provide and accept jobs.
This will not help us to reform the European institutions whilst fully respecting democratic institutions.
This directive is, of course, not in itself directly about that.
Financing from the 2001 budget must also be negotiated as we want this initiative not just to be an experiment but to last throughout both 2000 and 2001. It will therefore be ongoing throughout the negotiation of the Intergovernmental Conference and the ratification process.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions 55 to 114 will be replied to in writing.
This is a natural consequence of cooperation within the EU.
I believe that if it were to be adopted in Lisbon in this way, Lisbon will turn out to be a success.
When it comes to medical checks and so on, I do not have all the information needed to give a proper answer.
The Commission' s administration simply does not function particularly well.
Fourthly, and lastly - and this has already been mentioned - the international legal order has changed.
However, problems will arise in particular from the fact that under PHARE, for example, funds are managed on an annual basis and allocation of appropriations is project-related, whereas INTERREG funds are multiannual and are allocated on a measures-related basis.
Will we enlarge with or without deep reform?
So if she has any lectures to offer they are best contained within this House.
If we do not do this, we shall have failed in our duty.
In addition, this sort of measure would also seriously hamper the development of the financial markets and would stand in the way of the principle of the free movement of capital, which is one of the central tenets of the internal market.
It is extremely important and I recognise the concern of the honourable Member.
This request, however, was not honoured by the Council at its Helsinki Summit at the end of last year. In the Finnish capital only vague pledges were made regarding consultation and cooperation.
This has now been done.
I hope that, in the future, things will change and meetings will become frequent, because there are many issues which require the attention of the Commission in order to speed up and conclude, as quickly as possible, those measures which will promote greater equality between men and women.
I will return to this process of consultation in a few moments.
I want special-purpose vehicles such as ambulances to have high recovery quotas.
A list has been compiled, containing 400 substances which produce clear risks for the environment.
These deadlines for submission must therefore be staggered accordingly.
The specific reference in this resolution to East Timor, on the initiative of the PPE Group, is a timely one.
the oral question (B5-0004/2000) by Mr Désir and others, to the Council, on the Council position on the idea of a capital tax
Other important areas are, of course, the flow of private investments, cooperation on research and technology and the way in which the welfare state deals with, and finances solutions to, a variety of global problems which affect us all.
Consequently, Parliament believes it is necessary for the steel aid code to be amended in the light of the industry' s claims about unequal treatment, and for the Commission to provide the Council with follow-up regulations.
Europe puts the rebels in the South under pressure to negotiate and at the same time, Americans isolate the regime and support the rebels at military level.
Mr President, a couple of years ago, the previous Commission tried once and for all to tackle rigid and obsolescent structures.
I am convinced that the rapporteur' s nationality has played a certain role, which should not be of relevance in this Parliament.
I would also point out that our coordinator on the Budgetary Control Committee is Mr Pomés Ruiz, who is Spanish and has hence made a major contribution to this debate from a Spanish perspective.
A tremendous amount of work remains to be done in the field of transport, energy saving and even in substituting travel by communication via the Internet.
This has led to an increase in the number of women involved in political decision making which, in turn, has provided opportunities for further research.
Mr President, peace is the European Union' s very raison d' être. I am pleased about the fact that Commissioner Patten and Mr Solana have already underlined this repeatedly.
Also, our presence on the ground: basically, I find the biggest value we represent is the very fact that being a successful regional cooperation endeavour ourselves, we are seen as a neutral, welcome partner for this experiment world-wide - something which nobody else can claim to be.
In some cases, there have been incidents of food containing insects and such like.
In the same respect, given that structural unemployment is responsible for 50% of all unemployment, the INTERREG funds made available must be sufficient to supplement national measures promoting employment.
If we have not been able to reach agreement internally, I wonder whether we will then be able to convince the other trade partners.
For it is the third section of Mrs van der Laan' s report that is the most important, to my mind, namely the motion for a resolution.
Above all, however, we should give the countries concerned the opportunity to trade with us.
The contribution that the projects supported by LIFE make to the sustainability of social and economic activities, and thus job creation.
We could also add to the list the next EU-OAU summit which it has finally been agreed to hold in Cairo in April.
I am thinking in particular here of fish and shellfish companies, which have been particularly badly hit.
The dangerous chemical substances constitute a big leak.
And, finally, I want to say that I think that the tighter arrangements which are being introduced in regard to payment schemes and pricing are quite proper if we, as consumers, are to be given an incentive to use water resources efficiently and, at the same time, obtain arrangements which can promote the achievement of those environmental goals about which, I believe, there is broad agreement.
What is more, a very large warehouse has been constructed, in respect of which it is proving difficult to secure access to the planning permission and other infrastructures are planned by the Drogheda Corporation.
The European Parliament is constantly drawing attention in its resolutions to this sort of danger, which threatens our environment, upsets our ecosystem and again weakens our populations.
First of all, in your view, does the common foreign and security policy aim to protect the security of the Member States of the Union, as one might think, or do you recognise their right to intervene anywhere in the world?
The EU must adhere to the Kyoto Protocol on climate.
It is high time there was peace in the Middle East.
He must have reconsidered and, in so doing, has, as usual, shown great respect for this House. I thank him for this.
Our greatest concern in the EPP is to ensure that public confidence in the European Commission is restored.
The social dialogue has often acted as a brake on reform and its overhaul is long overdue.
The euro will enter into circulation on 1 January 2002 and will become one of the world' s most important reserve currencies.
Most of these people can only be saved by aircraft, especially helicopters, of which it is clear that too few are in action.
A demanding, ambitious, perhaps even prophetic task and we wish you every success, Mr President of the Commission.
Why do we all go on about the environment and are then not prepared to pay for it amongst all of us, but rather expect the usual people, the ones who live there all year, to pay for it and maintain it?
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr von Wogau, for his commitment and I welcome his thoughts.
Arrested and released in Madrid, he is now being extradited after arrest in Lisbon.
This is a fascinating debate which I realise is not totally Community-related.
The majority of the population of Europe live in cities, and their problems are among the most pressing within the context of regional policy and very complex matters in themselves.
This is a scenario whereby the European Union has a membership of over 25 Member States.
Eleven thousand job losses at Hoechst and Rhone-Poulenc, twenty two thousand at Unilever, ten thousand at ABB/Alsthom Power, not to mention all the others.
I hope that the next time you ask me the question, I will be in a position to give you more detailed information.
We must create a permanent and truly independent, excellent and transparent system of risk assessment.
As a result, the Irish authorities agreed to reinstate the cord grass removal but this time by direct mechanical means.
Only a strengthened Europe is immune to political opportunists who exploit dissatisfaction.
Yes, but the point is to make a qualitative leap and, speaking in political terms, this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, means convincing the other Community partners that to fall short would be the worst thing we could do at the moment.
I am optimistic and quite relaxed and confident about the vote; we shall gain broad support for this opinion on EQUAL.
The ACP-EU Joint Assembly meets again in a few weeks time and I am sure this subject will be dealt with there.
The concerns expressed in this Parliament this morning by honourable Members will be at the core of the activity of my colleague and of the Commission as a whole in the preparation of the further proposal.
This concern, ladies and gentlemen, lies at the very heart of our URBAN initiative, and I am willing to rewrite the text, if necessary, in order to make this message clearer yet.
Mr President, this disaster at the mine in Romania affects a large hydrogeological area with rivers and watercourses in Romania, Hungary, Serbia and Bulgaria, The fact that 100 000 m3 of cyanide-poisoned water and large quantities of heavy metals have leaked out into the ecosystem is going to have appalling consequences for people in the area for a very long time to come, as well as for animal and plant life, agriculture, the tourist industry, biodiversity and the whole of the ecosystem.
These are the procedures which caused the corruption scandal in the previous Commission.
Do forgive me.
That chasm exists and we in Brussels have not been able to cross that divide.
I can assure you that we are not reaching the areas where there is most need.
I would therefore recommend to Members of Parliament that we cut across party lines and vote against all the amendments to the common position which would weaken environmental standards and reduce manufacturers' liability.
The second approach is a compulsory legislative commitment on the representation of women.
It would also incur all the transaction costs of selling your shares and then buying them again after the fall.
It involves taking action in a given policy area when the science is not clear, but where there are reasonable grounds for concern that the potential risks are big enough to require action.
It would seem to us that the Council has taken the various issues - those of legitimate interceptions, the rights of the defence, the rights of detainees and of the authorities legally empowered to request mutual assistance - a little too lightly.
The Northern Ireland fishing industry has received many hard blows from this Union.
Such pressures are greatest in Europe.
It has to be conceded that the EU has already aided, I would say quite magnificently, the development of poor countries.
The work of the Conference will determine the structure and method based on which Europe will be functioning in the twentieth century.
However, I believe that there are also some elements of consensus.
Is the Commission considering taking any action to allow in-house lawyers in all Member States legal privilege?
A number of problems exist as regards the structure of the regulator and its independence.
We are basically well disposed towards the European Union.
We need to take this responsibility seriously.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Madam President, we could have been debating the need to reinforce the founding principles of the Union, so that we can uphold them together.
Consequently, the bulk of the action must be taken beforehand.
Of course, we must take due note of the issue of competitiveness, but social protection too must be planned in a way that makes it a factor of economic growth and employment.
The debate is closed.
Everyone feels that this kind of joint tax is a virtuous measure which does not prevent trade but is aimed primarily at speculation and its perverse effects. The Members on the right should note this.
That would mean billions of pounds or euros for each of the major companies in each of the countries of the European Union.
The accession of Austria to the Community was a joint venture.
We nonetheless consider that the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference should be limited to questions which have to be resolved if it is to be possible for enlargement to take place.
On a subject as important as counterfeiting and protection against counterfeiting and harmonising the necessary criminal law provisions we cannot really work at the ridiculous pace the Council is demanding of us.
As the previous speakers have said, and as you said, Commissioner, in response to my fellow Member, Mr Martinez, with regard to another tragedy, the floods in November in the Southwest of France, you have certainly noted these disasters with concern, but all you are doing is pointing out that the budget line for emergency appropriations for natural disasters has been discontinued, which has resulted in this shocking paradox. This paradox, pointed out by the previous speaker, is that it is easier, a great deal easier, to offer help to victims of natural disasters outside the Union than within it.
In this field the Commission, in conjunction with the Portuguese Presidency and the European Parliament, will give its full support to the Interinstitutional Conference to be held on drugs in February.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in my view, the question which needs to be raised in Geneva this year is certainly not the death penalty.
It is with the greatest satisfaction that I welcome the two proposals for directives intended to facilitate the freedom of movement of workers who are nationals of a third country while facilitating the freedom of movement of services.
The real benefit of culture is that art and knowledge can be transferred safely and easily from the artist directly to the user, the consumer.
Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, rural development can and must tackle the problem from three different angles: preservation of jobs, stewardship of the countryside and, not least, local culture, because that is of the utmost importance.
We voted in favour of the resolution because we received a request to this effect from a French postal service trade union which was looking to obtain, in the event of a favourable vote, an additional time frame in which to defend employees.
In this sense, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is both an exemplary and a symbolic case.
This particularly applies, however, to our own coastal waters.
People who live a long way from civilisation will clearly not receive a better service or else they will then have to pay a great deal and some of them will not be in a position to do so.
It pertains, among other things, to notifications, information exchanges, the temporary transfer of detainees, the restitution of property, testimonies via video conferences, investigative activities and 'undercover' activities, and the interception of telephone calls.
The Union ought to reassess how aid for environmental projects can be allocated in a better way in support of a sustainable policy on water.
The European Union' s contribution under the Stability Pact, now converted into what is called the "stabilisation and association process" , represents a development in the regional concept the European Community drew up in 1996 for the five countries of the region: Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania. Its most significant aspect was the establishment of political and economic conditions intended to support the implementation of the Dayton peace agreement, and it should therefore contribute to regional stability.
Have you really taken into account the changes in staff structure that new information technology will bring about, because those will be fundamental in the new direction of these reforms.
Question No 45 by (H-0006/00):
The vast majority of these citizens are elderly people and pensioners, who want a peaceful retirement and who, after the problems encountered during the course of their working lives, have at last found financial peace of mind.
Mr President, we are basically in favour of the resolution that has been tabled, even if we think that this can only be interpreted as an invitation by Parliament to the Council to amend the Treaties, so that effective protection under criminal law of the Union' s financial interests can be guaranteed.
. (DA) We oppose, on principle, the European Community' s entering into treaties on copyright law on behalf of the Member States.
Mr President, may I start by saying that I would like to thank Commissioner Palacio very much for her clear, adequate and, at the same time, very firm response.
I have raised questions regarding this issue for years now.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Bolkestein.
The proposal before us as outlined in the introduction is a very important one.
More than anything, the country needs peace and quiet now, in order to put its internal house in order and to find the road to greater prosperity.
Mr Di Pietro' s proposal to omit the current Article 18 regarding intercepting telecommunications, amongst other things, is understandable, although very strict.
The prevention of pollution and water deterioration has to be right as well as the ability to manage water in times of drought and flood.
The Dalai Lama has made it clear that peaceful dialogue is what he wishes.
Indeed, the new Commission has now declared itself in favour of follow-up checks having this independence, and so would it not make sense for a system of prior approval to enjoy such independence as well?
Nothing has changed there.
Many elements of our work, and particularly of my work as Commissioner for Justice and Home Affairs, involve protecting the rights of children.
This is the way to ensure that such conflicts are avoided in the future.
On 14 February, we will see the launch of the IGC which is to be completed by the end of 2000.
What is important, however, is that they have begun.
In my view, it is clearly in conflict with, and far exceeds the scope of, Article 34, paragraph 2, point b where a legal basis is established for so-called framework decisions which are binding upon the Member States in regard to the desired objectives, but in which it is left to the national authorities to determine the form and methods of implementation.
This system appears to us to be unsuitable in practical terms.
Mr President, I support the main proposals of the report concerning the administration of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund for the period 2000-2006 and the main recommendations of the report which include the following: there must always be an integrated approach to the spending of EU Structural and Cohesion Funds.
In an extraordinarily edifying speech, characterised by wisdom, historical knowledge, an understanding of the human heart and insight into Europe' s spiritual and Christian heritage, he pointed to sources of inspiration for our work on human justice and human dignity.
They will instead help industry to be in the vanguard of eventually producing environmentally friendly and more fuel-efficient cars.
In order to fight poverty, entitlement to an income and to employment are inalienable rights.
I cannot therefore tell you whether we agreed or not on a specific action carried out by NATO, but it was part of an overall plan with which we do agree.
While there were problems - and we have to resolve them in view of enlargement, for instance - we sometimes take the negative side too far.
The second report of the Wise Men arrived in September.
I would like to suggest to the Commission that it prescribe a deadline by which the reforms have to be carried out.
There is prejudice at work here, which - without going into our programme - is reducing the darkest hour of European history to a political spectacle.
It contained details and issues that had already been raised in previous reports.
I should like, however, to draw your attention to the fact that all this is taking place in a framework in which there is confusion and a schizophrenic attitude about criminal law.
But through this regional and environmental reconstruction plan we can continue the monitoring and the assistance we can give and that is, for the time being, the kind of frame we can use for the work of the European Union.
First of all, there is a risk that the decentralisation of powers, though necessary in many ways, will cause an abnormal increase in competition-related initiatives, and that some people will be tempted to use competition law, not as a means to be resorted to when all else fails, of ensuring the smooth and predictable functioning of the markets, but for the purposes of as an instrument for economic and industrial policy, planning and interference with the natural workings of the markets themselves, or even for protectionist purposes.
In the light of the above, will the Council reconsider the funding for the reconstruction of Kosovo, as requested by Parliament?
The capital and securities market has continued to be developed.
The debate is closed.
What are the values of the Belgian Socialist Party, which only goes from paedophilia scandals to corruption scandals, via Vandam and Agusta?
It is a part of its future which is at stake right now, part of its very essence, its heart and soul.
The virtually systematic conditions of detention and the criminalisation of asylum-seekers are no longer acceptable.
Of course, the situation was not idyllic, even before the bombardments, anything but, I should say. However, since NATO' s intervention, there has been a very clear deterioration in the natural and human environment.
. Mr President, I would first like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Viceconte and congratulate him on the report.
As for the monitoring and management of these programmes, I have not yet received the national provisions proposed by the Greek Government pursuant to Article 8 of the new Regulation.
I merely mention it as an example of where we must take care and where I would recommend that we try to achieve more legal security in the future.
The most important subject for discussion in this context is the climate.
In the context of the humanitarian aid provided by the Union and the efforts of its envoy Bernard Kouchner, will the Commission say what measures have been taken to safeguard the women of Kosovo's right to motherhood and the health of pregnant women, women in childbirth and babies?
Commission's strategic objectives and legislative programme
This initiative has provoked a strong reaction on China' s part: the Chinese authorities are making representations to the countries and institutions of the European Union, in an attempt to persuade them not to support the United States' initiative.
We will talk about this issue during the cohesion report which I regard as an important time for making an assessment with and before this House and for outlining future prospects. The time will come at the beginning of next year for any amendments to be highlighted.
This is why we considered it essential to improve the report by means of our proposals deliberately to include agricultural activity and farmers in the strategy for rural development and to request more appropriations in order not to threaten the survival of the programme in those rural regions which were covered before. We also want to ensure that the new programme continues to prioritise the less-favoured regions.
It is not about establishing original rights for third-country nationals modelled on freedom of movement.
A serious imbalance in the functioning of these markets has emerged, which has of course made it necessary to make important adjustments, which in turn inevitably mean new options as regards development policies.
Mr President, I believe that the precautionary principle needs to be quite radical in order to work, otherwise we shall always be confused by all the different interpretations possible.
Now is not the time to isolate but to unite and to complete together the task of unifying Europe.
However, the level of aid is only one of many instruments which significantly influence the development of poor countries.
Secondly, under the reconstruction programme, urgent intervention at the hospital in Mitrovica has already been initiated with a EUR 1 million rehabilitation programme.
. Commissioner Prodi pointed out that 'Africa is our responsibility' and not apparently that of the USA and other major countries.
This motion asks the Commission to present a report to Parliament within six months on the feasibility of this tax. It also asks for an examination of the pressures and financial sanctions which could be applied against countries which encourage tax evasion or which maintain tax havens.
It must therefore have a system of courts to enforce that law.
That figure of EUR 167 million for so many years is a disgrace for the European Union!
It is important that after the first step, which has already been taken, i.e. forming OLAF from UCLAF - an independent institution - we now take the second step and create a legal framework for OLAF, in order that OLAF too might operate within a secure legal framework.
It is, I think, regrettable that the Commission could not make a similar assessment of LEADER II, regarding the quality of the projects, the quantity of appropriations spent and, most especially, the demotivation of some local operators in the face of the administrative and financial unwieldiness they encountered.
But, as I have already mentioned, our overriding objectives ought still to be those of transparency and openness.
However, at the same time, I have found that morale amongst the Commission' s staff is very low.
Therefore, whilst I welcome the strict basic conditions, I would also call for the controls that are to be implemented by the Member States to be made as effective and simple as possible.
The only arguments against it are: firstly, it would impair the efficiency of the foreign exchange market - a little fanciful in light of the financial feeding frenzies we have seen that have destroyed jobs throughout the world, in East Asia, Europe and Latin America.
Subject: Amount which Andalusia will receive from the Structural Funds for the 2000-2006 period According to the Commission' s estimates and on the basis of the criteria established at the Berlin Summit (which include per capita GDP, the unemployment rate and the population census updated in accordance with the 1996 register of inhabitants), what amount is to be allocated to Andalusia from the Structural Funds for the 2000-2006 period?
As the White Paper makes clear, the new authority must be a value-added structure.
We cannot be accused of bad management.
If it is a personal statement, would you be prepared to wait until the end of this debate, at which stage I would be happy to call you?
Fortunately evaluations of EC aid give us a meaningful tool to improve what we are doing and also hopefully to meet the challenges I have just mentioned.
It is time that polluters started to pay because, up to now, it has been those affected and taxpayers who have paid, and they have not just paid but cleaned up the affected areas as well.
First of all, the Sharm el-Sheikh Agreement contains, as everyone knows, a concrete timetable for the implementation of Israel' s commitments. This applies both to the interim agreement and to the Hebron and Wye Agreements.
In order to grant small and medium-sized companies greater security, the European Commission itself needs to draw up an exemption regulation for small and medium-sized businesses so that, alongside vertical exemptions, horizontal exemptions will also be possible.
Secondly, the principles of such Community legislation should also be extended to international agreements to which the Community is a party.
They will not weaken Mr Haider and the FPÖ. On the contrary, they will strengthen them.
In Scotland we have endured a draconian regime which has failed to achieve its objective.
The next item is the oral question (B5-0011/2000) by Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, to the Commission, on the shipwreck of the Erika.
That means that any development that takes place in or near the Boyne Estuary and that is likely to affect the special protection area must take account of the protection criteria for the area laid down in the Community' s Habitats Directive.
A very important component, to wit, one third of our drinking water, is extracted from surface water in the Netherlands.
There is indeed a great deal of hypocrisy regarding Angola.
It is unacceptable that something like this has been foisted on the Member States of the EU without any proper public debate.
This is an arduous task.
In our report, we have highlighted the importance of combating poverty within the EU and of finding indicators as soon as possible so that we can make progress in this area.
Although it is difficult for Europe to speak with one voice about the peace process, it can and must speak in the same spirit of confidence and solidarity.
The third aspect is the peace negotiations in Syria which are closely linked to the issue of Israeli withdrawal from Southern Lebanon.
The involvement of the social partners also needs to be highlighted.
On the other hand, prevention is essential.
I hope the message strikes home and I really hope that you will soon produce a report which contains measures.
We have taken almost eleven months - President Prodi was nominated at the Berlin Summit in March last year - to establish a legislative programme. This is not entirely President Prodi' s fault.
And we welcome the broad outlines of the speech which President Prodi has just given.
. (IT) The report gives a clear impression that the concerted strategy for modernising social protection in Europe will be accompanied by an analogous process of cohesion.
It will require the advice of legal services and that will be sought, particularly bearing in mind that it may provide a speedy response to a failure to comply with Community law pending a court ruling.
That saves a great deal of time which I would like to use for other things and which I shall use now somewhat in anticipation, as Mr Böge has just done.
This often meant that good projects did not lead to real job opportunities.
It concerns the next IGC.
As you can see, half-an-hour is not really anything like enough time for such a session.
One seems powerless in a dialogue of this kind, where the other party actually has to reach a unanimous decision.
We basically highlighted the possibility of encountering difficulties in terms of growth in the USA, and therefore in other parts of the world, and of a sudden rise in inflation.
It may be true, as was said here, that today we have new possibilities, e.g. electronic possibilities such as e-mail, but on the other hand we must realise that as ever the ordinary letter continues to play a very, very important role and that, in particular, young families, the elderly and many others continue to rely very heavily on conventional mail.
A study has shown that 90% of the postal traffic is between companies and only 10% between individuals.
I hope that in conjunction with the Portuguese Presidency it will be possible to achieve a clear spirit of interinstitutional cooperation, which is also the political message of Tampere, and that this spirit of interinstitutional cooperation will be carried forward by subsequent presidencies.
If we do not maintain those standards for imported food then we are going to encounter greater difficulties in the future.
I thought at least they read the resolutions they were going to vote on.
The fourth area of incoherence in the European Union' s cooperation policy is this: how do you expect to help development by pillaging the natural resources of the people you are helping.
With regard to the question of Union inspectors, I believe that the principle of subsidiarity justifies the idea that these inspections be carried out by the Member States, which does not mean that the Commission does not have to ensure that the States carry out their duty adequately.
I therefore propose that this House agree to adopt the proposals on SAVE and the conclusion at the conciliation at third reading.
I think it is the right of a Member of Parliament to raise his own concerns and fears.
Since time immemorial it has welcomed all those who have decided to move there and regarded them as Andalusians from day one, whether or not they were born in our region. Therefore, as an MEP, but primarily as an Andalusian, I can feel only sadness, repugnance and condemnation for the xenophobic and racist events which have occurred and which are foreign to this tolerant community.
By its very nature, however, the European Union is, and will remain, a complex and convoluted multi-governmental institution.
It knows the ins and outs of aid provision better than any local organisation or authority.
So what are we to do now?
How could a Commissioner for Health and Consumer Protection reject or ignore well-founded independent scientific advice in relation to food safety?
The reasons for adjustments are, for example, to improve employment, reduce social security expenditure, but are also due to policy competition and EMU criteria.
This recovery is the logical consequence of the efforts we have made, but it comes at a price: it follows the restructuring of public accounts in European countries, which have kept inflation under control with a policy wisely intended to control costs and increase productivity in a Europe that has begun a vigorous restructuring of its own industries, banks and public services, even though this process is not yet complete and still has a long way to go.
The aid system must effectively be continued beyond 2002.
It is with these phrases that Albert Camus, at the close of the long allegorical novel describing the difficult fight of the citizens of the town of Oran against the plague, reminds us, at the close of the Second World War, that the fight against Nazism, "the brown plague" as it was termed at the time, could not enjoy a definitive victory.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have an update for you on the curtain and window situation.
It is also true, however, that, since the signing of the Sharm el-Sheikh agreements, 39% of the territory of the West Bank has been handed over to the Palestinian National Authority, together with two thirds of the Gaza Strip and, more importantly, this agreement has so far been scrupulously complied with, since, under the terms laid down in Sharm el-Sheikh, the Israeli Government has the right to delay that handover.
We are delighted today to see the progress this idea has enjoyed in certain circles, one which are still, unfortunately, outside the European Parliament and the Commission.
Consistency and action are needed.
Madam President, we can only endorse the general guidelines of the five-year programme and of the programme for 2000, set out with so much enthusiasm by President Prodi this morning.
I believe that this type of language is extremely dangerous and I would like to condemn it here and now.
You talk about decentralisation but practise centralisation.
We must not and cannot give the impression that the Union exclusively wishes to defend itself from an avalanche of refugees and economic migrants.
I am aware, and the previous speaker highlighted this, that there are States in the European Union that have problems with water.
The positive experience of innovative actions of small promoters was jeopardised by their distance from the policy process.
At that time, bearing in mind the strength of public feeling about the disastrous consequences of this accident, the Council made known its concerns about the safety of oil tankers and the environmental protection that should go hand in hand with it.
Capital tax
Vote
In my opinion, the Legal Affairs Committee and the rapporteur Mr Di Pietro have produced some very interesting work.
In France, 95% of elected representatives are town councillors.
It is of decisive importance to get local business, organisations and other players involved in the practical implementation of programmes.
I consider that we are experiencing an historic moment in this regard.
I would emphasise, too, that the intention is not only to liberate the personnel of the Commission - that is certainly an objective - but it is simultaneously to "responsibilise" - it is an appalling word but we all know what it means.
We are currently working on it in the Commission and when that work is done I will report on it, as many have been asking if it will be possible to see the report on coherence.
Many volunteers from France and other European countries have expressed their solidarity by lending a hand to the victims in the field.
It was because of our concern about these issues that we disagreed with some of the proposals put forward by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, and in particular those relating to an excessively restrictive timetable and to the scant attention paid to social and agricultural aspects, which are very important for a country like Portugal, which suffers from water shortage problems and also inadequate socio-economic development.
As for videoconferencing, more precise regulations must be established so that the rights of the defence and guarantees of fair trials are safeguarded.
In order to facilitate achieving this objective, Directive 96/35/EC provided for the appointment of safety advisers for dangerous goods who would have appropriate professional training.
Mr Berenguer made a very accurate analysis, justifying the need and the relevant reforms for improving the dynamics of competition, but my concern is to ensure that the standards and criteria which will be applied through the corresponding administrations in the Member States, are truly identical in all regions.
No-one would benefit from this type of harmonisation" .
The problem, however, should not be sought within this Parliament or the Commission; it is the Council that needs to make a decision on the EDF budget. This sermon, therefore, really belongs in the Council.
On behalf of my group, but also personally, I hope that the vital financial spirit of the Union will pave the way for the creation of a European legal system which respects citizens' rights and guarantees, which is to say a legal system that will raise guarantees to the acceptable levels hitherto unseen in many States.
This House is therefore your ally but not one which is too accommodating. You must therefore listen to our opinions, one or two of which I wish to express in my brief speech.
I am convinced that this is an error of judgement.
The intervention prices have been regulated, and the problems we had with beef in Western Africa and in Namibia were actually solved by reducing the intervention support.
It is therefore even more urgent that we acquire and disseminate managerial and technological skills in order to promote new means of production and a supply of tourism which reflects market developments as closely as possible.
Mr President, Commissioner, the new attitude adopted recently by the Commission on this important economic activity is striking to those of us who, in recent years, have kept an eye on tourism and its place in the Community framework.
This new imperial policy advocates reorganising European and national institutions, strengthening the power of the state, increasing competition, establishing a European army and redistributing financial resources.
We do not accept this agreement, which deprives people of the wherewithal to build societies which are independent of the European multinationals and banks.
I utterly reject this!
We Socialists reject the liberals' naïve optimism on this point.
Renewable energy sources lower dependency on imported energy and their increased use boosts competitiveness.
As the Committee on Equal Opportunities, we also stress the need to finance infrastructures that will facilitate professional activity by women, mainly by harmonising their professional and family commitments, and more generally infrastructures that promote solidarity between the generations, social solidarity.
It aims to strengthen consumer protection and security.
This proposal has two objectives: first, to amend the 1991 Council Directive on animal health conditions by removing the provisions on scrapie and, secondly, to introduce a new regulation establishing rules for preventing and combating transmissible spongiform encephalopathies (TSE) or BSE-type diseases affecting sheep and other animal species.
However, I have the impression that the policy in the water framework directive is geared towards deregulation and renationalisation.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
This is also about respecting a culture, a language, a way of life and a people' s religion, a vulnerable culture which has nearly disappeared.
Secondly, even the growth rate of 3 or 4%, something we consider eminently feasible, will not be sufficient to reduce unemployment if we do not improve the job content of this growth.
However, as politicians we must ask the question why 27% of the Austrian population voted for a party such as the FPÖ at the elections in October 1999.
Things could well continue in the same way.
I think this is a better solution than proceeding now to extremely time-consuming explanations of votes.
And yet, at the same time, we allow the arms trade to proliferate and do not even attempt to limit the trade in the most atrocious forms of arms such as anti-personnel mines.
Commissioner, far too little is said in your paper about regional policy.
. (FR) It is with the greatest satisfaction that I welcome this ambitious proposal for a framework directive on water policy.
We shall be monitoring each Commissioner carefully, so the other Commissioners have now been forewarned.
We must therefore congratulate the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on having the wisdom, in order to make things perfectly clear, to reintroduce the clause making an exception of the vintage cars which are part of our industrial and cultural heritage.
Health care, child care and care of the elderly are clear examples of areas which are not obviously transnational.
But optimum efficiency does not necessarily come about of its own accord.
I am afraid the proposals that are being put forward by Mr Herman Schmid will not deal with that globalising world.
He should never have stayed in France, having been reported to the transport police more than 40 times for offences, which should have been enough for him to be expelled back to his home country.
In recent years, the derivatives market has grown very rapidly in almost all the Member States.
Lastly, we need to go further in our development aid policies towards developing countries.
As you know, a Council Resolution was approved, in June 1997, under which the Commission was required to present evaluation reports.
All four pillars should reflect aspects of equality.
I am persuaded, however, by the suggestion in paragraph 34 of the report on using external bodies to enforce existing provisions on financial liability.
At the time, I did not know that Commissioner Bolkestein was going to appear next week before the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism to discuss this matter.
However, it seems that the Commission does not share this view, although it is the Commission which is obliged to present the Council and Parliament with a report on the functioning of the common fisheries policy over the last decade before the end of 2001, and it is on this basis that the Council will have to make the appropriate decisions with regard to its modification.
Where failure is occurring within the Commission we need to hold people responsible.
Obviously everyone will hope that his prediction of what may happen in the future is on the gloomy side.
There can be no doubt that implementing and developing all these aspects will inevitably make an important contribution to strengthening the role of development policies in the context of the European Union' s foreign policy.
Often they are located together, each service being made more viable by the existence of the other.
Nonetheless, the French delegation in our group was unable to accept the fact that the Commission and the federalist faction have diverted the INTERREG initiative from its original purpose in order to detract still further from the political role of the nations.
All will be beneficial, not just in relation to ISA but in achieving better standards in aquaculture generally where required.
We must therefore act very carefully in this area and guarantee the confidentiality of this data.
You have to admit: this is a joke.
This is the main reason why we must proceed with liberalisation, albeit in a prudent manner.
If I said anything different I would be contradicting myself as Commissioner for Regional Policy which is one of the most specific and most visible policies for increasing employment and improving the quality of life of people in their regions. You will often hear me say that this policy does not just have one main objective of achieving cohesion and solidarity between the regions but that it is intended in addition to help people, where they live, to preserve their roots, traditions, soul and identity.
We decentralise administrative and, in some cases, financial responsibilities to local level with the aim of making cooperation more effective.
These are really the people who deserve our solidarity.
I want to know whether one can raise an objection of that kind to what is merely a report, not a legislative proposal, and whether that is something I can competently do on Thursday.
Maritime transport, employment and energy should be integrated together with fisheries and the environment.
Until now, the restrictions on the freedom of movement within the Union of non-Community workers have been very harsh.
I should like to stress this point because it is paramount.
The latter would be well advised, however, to follow the good example of the Commission, for once, and make the same efforts in their own research programmes.
As regards the financing package for the implementation of LIFE over the next five years, I wholeheartedly support the increase from EUR 613 million to EUR 850 million proposed by the rapporteur, Mrs Lienemann.
Madam President, reforming and democratising the institutions of the European Union are central to the historic and moral challenge of the enlargement process.
Recruitment, career development, mobility and disciplinary measures are all being based on completely new criteria: there will be greater emphasis on individual service, credible and, above all, verifiable performance appraisal systems, lifelong learning and a greater degree of management responsibility.
Stand by universality and affordability!
This is why this report is also so politically charged: a report, by the way, on which we would like to congratulate the rapporteur warmly.
The first is that economic policy, employment and social protection should be strictly interdependent in a way that is directly proportional.
I think we can also thank the rapporteur once again.
It also reminds us of the need for a new growth model, one that is firmly rooted in the culture of the Catholics who are involved in social problems, who see, in the civil community and the social interaction that that must be encouraged and facilitated among the public, the most natural instruments for building solidarity.
Moreover, as you said, monitoring must above all be stepped up: that of the flag state, that of the classification societies.
Indeed any such applicants can still apply in respect of their particular product.
Never have the parties been so determined.
I also want to take up the subject of migration.
It is imperative for this to go hand in hand with a demand-orientated economic policy if we are to have any chance at all of improving the social situation in these areas.
That is important.
We will continue to do that with energy and with consistency and as Mr Cox said in the debate, 'necessarily with acute vigilance' .
This report contains information which shows that in order to create a new company the bureaucratic cost in the USA is EUR 500 and in the European Union, on average, it is EUR 1 600.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would very quickly like to make one point. Various Members raised questions about the Portuguese Presidency.
The EU should also, on the basis of a uniform definition of poverty thresholds, table recommendations concerning what is called the minimum acceptable subsistence level in the Member States.
However, before labelling we need clear rules.
Mr President, all the reports and pictures reaching us bear witness to the scale of the tragedy afflicting Mozambique.
At the same time, we give these countries an enormous amount of development aid.
This programme was designed to encourage cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation and to promote balanced development of the Community territory in order to enhance economic and social cohesion in the Union.
The next item is the continuation of the Council and Commission statements on the Middle East peace process.
I think, however, it is quite obvious that when it is eventually time to decide upon a particular step to be taken, it is often the case that there are many different courses of action to choose between.
At the same time, however, it has to be said that, unfortunately, your programme reminds me in many ways of a party manifesto.
The money from this pool, system, or however you want to picture it, would mean that from 2006 all vehicles in circulation could be taken in without cost to the last holder.
At the beginning it is sometimes a little like chasing a rainbow if we say that a plan is too idealistic.
That wider responsibility concerns the management of the environment, food safety, foreign trade, the internal market and so many other responsibilities we have given them without the resources to deal with them.
In this respect too, I would ask the Commission to be particularly attentive about ensuring that there is real cohesion between the various policies, specifically in the INTERREG programmes which are being submitted.
I would like to appeal to those Ministers not to cast doubt upon that agreement which was really very difficult to reach.
There could have been deaths in this disaster and safety at sea means, above all, men' s lives.
Mr President, before we begin our discussion, as an Italian MEP - and I believe I also speak on behalf of all Italian MEPs - I should like to condemn the position taken yesterday by the German Chancellor, who interfered in Italian internal affairs, when he threatened that Europe would intervene if any neo-fascists became members of the government.
Of 47 states invited from all corners of the world, not one of them, however, is an Arab state included in the EU' s Barcelona process.
Mr President, we are required under the advisory procedure to debate a proposal for a Council regulation on the implementation of operations within the framework of the pre-accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta.
One urgent question is therefore raised: why, when this programme has been successfully run for ten years, is LEADER+ still classed as experimental?
The only apparent sanction for Member States that do not completely fulfil the requirements of the minimum programme under the regulation is that they will not be eligible for any financial assistance in respect to the extended programme.
However, this can be seriously questioned as the manufacturers will pass on all the costs to consumers and acquire for themselves a state-sanctioned monopoly on recycling.
I hope for their adoption.
Mr President, human rights are universal, indivisible, interrelated and interwoven.
My colleagues, Mrs Frassoni and Mr Onesta have already spoken, somewhat sceptically, about some aspects of the matter in hand.
I urge you all, women of the Right, to listen to Mrs Lulling, because she told us why quotas were needed and, if any of us has sufficient experience of political life, it is she.
Clearly also we need to see a massive airlift.
That reflects the growth of inequality between EU and ACP countries.
It can, nevertheless, in the affected fish, lead to severe weight loss and early death in its advanced stages and it therefore has had a serious economic impact on the whole Scottish aquaculture sector costing the industry around EUR 60 to 70 million in losses arising from the mandatory premature culling and other eradication measures.
More significantly, under Amendment No 1, the Fisheries Committee accepts the recommendation of the Budgets Committee that the funding should be placed under heading 1(b) rather than heading 3 of the Financial Perspective.
The price paid by women for following their desire to be protagonists in all spheres is that they never have enough time.
It was only after they unsuccessfully solicited the FPÖ to tolerate a minority government and, obviously in vain, offered the Freedom Party ministerial posts, that the SPÖ begin its massive campaign against Haider.
As members of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, we regarded certain principles as particularly important when we adopted a position on the different proposals.
That is what the debate we are having is all about, on the subject of which I have this to say to you: we need more freedom and less state intervention.
I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council, after his few hours working in this Chamber with these Members of the European Parliament, whether he has come to any assessment of what they are worth in terms of pay?
My other question concerns Africa, which is the only continent not mentioned in 'Shaping the New Europe'.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if in future you succeed in making this EUR 13.5 billion subject to the supervision of the parliamentary Committee on Budgetary Control, and to bodies such as OLAF, then I believe you will raise the level of acceptability.
Mr President, I would like to join my colleagues in welcoming the representatives of the Council as well as the Commissioner.
Amendment No 47 is unacceptable as far as the proposed changes to the first paragraph of Article 22a are concerned, because this proposal completely clashes with the spreading rules of Article 22, especially when the UCITS are obliged to indicate a point of reference in their prospectuses, as discussed in the Council.
Frequently liberalisation leads to guaranteed standards and the on-going standardisation of the measurement of the quality of service also contributes, as these standards will better reflect actual performance.
On the contrary, we must adopt crystal-clear texts in order to limit legal disputes.
The next step, i.e. institutional reform, will be taken following the inauguration of the new Intergovernmental Conference, in which the European Parliament will be fully involved.
As manufacturers are responsible for the design, they can give a great deal of consideration to the environment at the conception phase.
We will therefore need to focus on policy priorities first.
As a king sport fisherman myself, I would love to see the days of the 1930s come back when anglers from the port of Scarborough in Yorkshire caught bluefin tuna weighing up to 830 pounds.
The European Union must also have the power to act in the event of a government electing to impose a total blockade.
This reduction in funding has led to a reduction in the number of programmes in the new URBAN initiative.
The wind triumphed over electricity pylons, roofs, traffic signs and, ultimately over the forest.
A universal service offering high-quality postal services at affordable prices throughout the country forms the basis for the operation of the whole postal system and must lead to a uniform nationwide tariff.
Nor do we do much to really prevent human rights violations.
This is the purpose of these guidelines.
We are convinced that the participation of women in the decision-making process will be beneficial to society as a whole.
I would therefore ask the Commission to please refrain from taking this unacceptable ideological approach and making such declarations which create instability and uncertainty among the citizens.
Common fisheries policy
We European Socialists are in favour of a market economy with a social purpose.
All this must lead us to intensify our action in favour of developing a common cultural area, within which our cultures can flourish further in all their unique features, in all their diversity, but may also be mutually enriched and the other citizens of Europe may participate fully in them.
In the face of coming enlargement the IGC must deal with fundamental reform and restructuring of the court system.
As you know, the first steps were taken some months ago.
These events, which are unfortunately overshadowing the political decisions in this area, confirm without doubt that the development of the Tampere Agreements and Title IV of the EC Treaty must be an urgent priority.
Allow me to say just one word. I agree that the working group should have met earlier but at least, once it did, important decisions were taken straight away.
(The Commissioner indicated that he would speak later) Very well, thank you.
We are now waiting for Parliament to decide when it wishes to begin negotiations on the text.
One of these of course is the reduction by around one half in appropriations made available even though they will cover a longer period.
This proposal addresses all TSE risk in all animals at all stages of the production chain.
However, even when existing rules or arrangements are formally respected this does not mean that management' s attitude is socially irreprehensible.
I want to remind Parliament that the Commission will be publishing, before the middle of the year, a comprehensive, intellectual case for placing human rights at the heart of the development of the common foreign and security policy.
Mr President, I too should like to congratulate the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council for their solid recommendations and, above all, for their proposals.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, you claim to be shaping a new Europe yet you are lacking one basic element: confidence.
In other words, we do not need to re-negotiate the text; we merely need to adopt this text in the directive.
Quotas alone are not enough.
Just as elderly people in cities are very isolated, so the elderly are fast becoming the sole inhabitants of rural areas because young people are moving to the cities: they are drawn by the bright lights, and the pubs, and the countryside and rural areas are being emptied.
No, of course not.
We will need the European Public Prosecutor' s Office for this, which will see to it that there are clear legal guarantees, also for suspects.
Thank you, Mr Lannoye.
We here in Parliament want to hold a serious discussion about the future development in this policy area on the basis of a programme.
We can see who is prepared to vote for a retrospection which is of doubtful legality, which would be a costly burden to every future car buyer and a devastating blow for the European car industry.
Social cohesion and the interplay of policies at EU-level is the focus of the forthcoming Lisbon Summit.
I thank the President-in-Office but I do not agree with him that the purpose of NATO' s intervention was to stop a humanitarian disaster, because we have a humanitarian disaster in Kosovo today, we have the hell of Milosevic, followed by the hell of the KLA and the NATO forces.
Only then will we find an adequate solution to the problem, taking into consideration the fact too that the manufacturer should be encouraged to make vehicles whose parts can be recycled at the smallest possible cost in the future.
I hope that we will learn the lessons and not repeat this unnecessary exercise which I believe was founded on a misapprehension as to what was expected rather than any bad faith on the part of either of the two institutions.
Parliament must therefore give its assent, because the agreement concerns its sphere of competence.
. (FR) Mr President, before my friends and fellow Commissioners, Franz Fischler and Anna Diamantopoulou, in turn come to speak - since all three of us who are responsible for these four Community initiatives have had the opportunity to follow this debate with the same interest, I would like to endeavour to speak on the subject of URBAN and INTERREG, which many of you have brought up and discussed.
With regard to trade with our partners in development, the Commission is quite prepared to guarantee that any new arrangement will take account of the ACP countries' special economic and social limitations.
Compromise wordings were agreed for five other amendments including legislative and non-legislative measures and the inclusion of local energy centres and, very importantly, the energy audit systems in the review of progress on energy efficiency.
This Convention will not create a new or different system of Mutual Assistance.
We plainly have a responsibility to do everything we can, as rapidly as we can, to help cope with this catastrophe.
Even by this stage, that is already too many by far.
Council Decision 90/424 constitutes another instrument for Community financial support in case of disease outbreaks.
We can save it from year to year and ensure that when something major happens we have an instrument to deal with it.

I do not believe that the Commission has set out to make war upon the islands of Scotland or Greece.
INTERREG is one of the four Community initiatives scheduled for the period 2000-2006, and is the one with the largest budget for implementation, i.e. EUR 4.875 billion as opposed to EUR 3.604 billion at the present time.
This Parliament has often heard the desire to reform the Commission expressed, even by its Presidents.
Mr President, Commissioner, competition is exactly what we need.
Yet on the issue of the Erika he has given the impression, perhaps not to us but certainly to the inhabitants of Brittany and the Vendée, that, as the Fisheries Commissioner, he is not always available or, at best, available only on a part-time basis.
Our policies in Africa lack coherence.
The Commission can commit itself to regularly informing Parliament of the invitations to tender which are published.
Do you think that Mr Putin does not know that what he is doing in Chechnya is not good?
Firstly: a regulatory framework is needed, which spells out very clearly the rights which the EU intends to secure for its citizens.
The international community could also help Mozambique in an act of generosity by cancelling its debts, not only because the country has adopted a relatively sound policy, but especially because the extent of human suffering makes this absolutely essential.
I welcome the statement made by Commissioner Liikanen, but I also look for the support of this Parliament to ensure that the legislation which we have passed on workers' rights is implemented rigorously and to ensure that impact assessments on the workforce for proposed mergers are undertaken as a matter of course.
So, up to now, their access to the entire territory of the Union has not been regulated by Community legislation.
That concludes Question Time.
Similarly, during the WTO negotiations, at a time when, to quote the second paragraph of the Schwaiger report, "the current trade liberalisation process has not yet brought significant benefits for large parts of the population of developing countries, especially the poor" , the European Union continues to defend the liberalisation of trade and intends to put an end to the system of favouring ACP countries, albeit with a transitional period of several years, instead of strengthening it, especially for the poorest countries.
It is quite an expensive business if you are to travel from Gothenburg to somewhere else in Europe on holiday or on a study visit if you are in a wheelchair and also need to have a personal assistant or carer with you in order to manage.
Against that background, our group is able to vote in favour of most of the amendments tabled by Mrs Lienemann, the rapporteur, as adopted in committee.
Yet the current situation in Europe provides us with clear examples of how jobs are being destroyed, particularly, and most seriously, by companies which are making huge profits.
We consider the matter to be important enough for the Commission to react swiftly to this situation, and I think that Parliament must make its position clear and vote on a resolution on the subject.
One can quote from the communication.
This is something I favour, but currently as part of a minority in my own Group.
ACP-EU Joint Assembly
This directive on additives in feedingstuffs cannot achieve this on its own.
I too am not aware of any reason why a tax on exchange rate transactions would lead to a stabilisation of exchange rates.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are pleased with the agreement which has been found, and their thanks go to all those who negotiated so well in favour of an amendment which the Greens were almost the authors of.
Mr President, because of the availability of high-technology additives in the feedingstuffs industry, detailed information on their use is needed from the actors, and as we know there are a lot of them, so that we can put a stop to practices which infringe Community law.
These are all areas in which we have to ensure a level playing field: food must be of the same standard in all Member States.
If Parliament votes in favour of the Committee on Budgetary Control' s proposal this week and grants discharge, then the Commission must not take this to be a blank cheque.
Brussels is not all of us, as you claim. It is all of you.
Moreover, an adequate contribution from different economic sectors, broken down into industrial, household and agricultural sectors, must ensure that this policy is implemented.
The Commission can approve 72 of the 108 amendments, either in their entirety, partially or in principle.
The flooding has been going for weeks, and yet only now it seems there is an assessment of need.
Fisheries management and nature conservation in the marine environment
The high level of protection aimed at by the common position would be very much undermined if the recycling objective for the year 2006 were removed.
The first is that important advances have been made in regional and social cohesion throughout the Union and that the Community Funds have been a major, although not decisive, factor in reducing regional inequalities.
As far as the Commission is concerned, it is willing to avoid any unjustified bureaucratic overload, but we cannot give up the practice of checking the relevance and quality of the proposed programmes, indeed you would be the first to criticise us if we did.
Mr President, I agree with the positive evaluation Mrs Junker has just made and I want to add that Mr Corrie has started his term as Co-President of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly with effective and impartial work deserving of our full appreciation.
Let us take a very simple parameter: turnout at the next European elections.
Israelis and Palestinians have made substantial progress in implementing the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum.
Read Mr Katiforis' s report again, in which he says that in Scotland, for example, 17 000 salmon are infected by the disease that I just mentioned, and impact upon the environment.
To give you an example, in both paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Dutch and German versions, the equivalents of the English words: "in so far as" have been omitted.
The manner in which the Council, which is by far the most undemocratic institution in Europe, consulted the European Parliament makes a mockery of the concept of democracy.
Even though they can no longer be driven, these nine million cars may still be traded and moved across borders; and not just intra-Community borders, but also those outside the Union.
From the sixth periodic report on the regions, one can draw the hesitant conclusion that these incentives do not always have the desired effect.
.
This will also be important with a view to the special summit in March, where tourism is bound to be mentioned as a significant contributor to employment.
It points to the problems experienced in 1999, when, notwithstanding the problems, there was currency and price stability, increased employment, the beginnings of a period of upturn, and it was possible to make a start on reducing unemployment.
Assessment and publication are part of this, and it has of course assumed responsibility for these in the past.
Our next challenge will be to prevent the occurrence of phytosanitary problems which could result from having to abandon large amounts of wood in the forest, and from the pollution of ground water through having to store such large quantities of wood.
We can do so without going off at other tangents. I respect you as a serious Commissioner who wants to take his work seriously.
I am also pleased that Parliament essentially supports the Commission' s view that LEADER+ should be applied in all rural areas, that overriding priorities should be introduced and that, above all, active cooperation and networking between rural areas should be encouraged.
According to Mr Kouchner, the Minister is said to have hindered the efforts of the French police officials on ideological grounds.
We will therefore conduct this dialogue with the towns and regions.
The occasional application of Article 308 - formerly Article 235 - which requires unanimity, has prevented the adoption of a programme even of only EUR 8 million for five years and 15 Member States.
I know this is difficult to achieve now, but if we do not achieve fair employment laws for all workers, here and elsewhere, and we do not secure equitable subsidies for all countries, here and elsewhere, it will be difficult to preserve jobs in Europe and outside it.
We must take account of smaller cycles and plant stable mixed woodland when undertaking reforestation, rather than monocultures.
For the substance TBT, this means that it can no longer be used as an anti-fouling substance.
This technology can facilitate that necessary quantum leap forward in development policy to which I referred and, in this connection, the EU can set the agenda, leave its mark on development and honour its global responsibilities.
In my mind, illegal state aid amounts to little more than state-sponsored social dumping.
At a time when the tax burden on the work factor is increasing throughout Europe and internationally, we must consider how we can achieve efficient taxation of investment income and that includes the question of how to tax short-term financial transactions.
In most cases there is no hot food during the day as the Russian authorities are failing to provide this and are leaving this work to the non-governmental organisations.
It is shocking in philosophical terms and dubious in legal terms for 100% public money to be used to build up a heritage of private land ownership, even under cover of environmental protection.
Since the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force the Commission has presented a package of proposals for the implementation of Article 13 including, in particular, a proposal for a directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment regardless of race or ethnic origin.
Tourism is a major source of employment and has a role to play as regards the EU's financial support for less well-off regions.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report is very important not only in terms of its content but also because it represents an initial step towards the establishment of better relations in judicial cooperation.
For it is common knowledge that we could have an even greater disaster on our hands if the fallen timber were to be left in the forests too long.
I therefore feel we must carefully consider the balance of power that we are in danger of upsetting if we put forward this type of reform, which appears to be quite specific.
Although new to this House he is relatively old in some respects, certainly in his familiarity with the Institutions as a former official - and I think that the value of that is shown by his ability to tackle the complex subject which is of critical importance, as several Members have said, to all of our Institutions.
However, as it lacks the legal instruments to support this political will, since the sanctions stipulated under Article 7 of the Treaties are virtually impossible to apply, will it be able to keep its head high in the face of the threat of the systematic blocking of its entire institutional structure?
However, it annoyed me when I heard today that the Commission is now saying that it only wishes to discuss the interim report with Parliament on an informal basis.
As I suspected, it was not exactly a procedural motion, but more a closing of the debate.
An example here is the problem in Nigeria, which imports industrial finished products from all over the world and then has to spend substantial resources on product maintenance by foreign workers.
I hope that the Commission will make its own proposal concerning how the expanding Union might implement its institutional and other differentiation.
Leaders violating these principles now face international criticism, sanctions and are even brought to trial, such as ex-dictators like Mr Pinochet have experienced.
I would, however, warn against the illusion that incoherence is the product of some kind of a mechanical deficiency in the system.
I do not want to point the finger at any particular country, but many countries are now facing similar problems to those we have had in the United Kingdom.
This is an important matter.
I expect that we will achieve an excellent result in the reconciliation and that the efforts to achieve a better living environment will triumph over unreasonable industrial requirements.
For these are prerequisite to any development.
Mr President, "Europe stands for ideals, values and principles.
I am fully in agreement with the monitoring committee and the rapporteur on this point.
I do not believe that these signals will change the citizens' indifference to Europe.
Curiously, the exact composition of the cargo has still not been clarified.
In addition to incorporating a new methodology, this has meant making slight changes to most accounting aggregates and operations, on account of the aforesaid methodological changes, and also the improved statistical information included in the estimates.
We advocate that it should be implemented in its entirety.
Have you already included your second term of office?
The discussion has centred on the allocation formula to be applied.
I consider that this is a serious defect and that, in principle, it does not befit our legal system.
Nevertheless, the European Parliament must retain the right to be informed and where appropriate also to react.
We have criteria for the gathering and interpretation of statistics which are totally at odds with each other, despite what was said in a 1995 directive by the Commission and Parliament.
I should also stress that the Commission has never approved any application for an authorisation for GMOs to be included in additives.
We now have a framework programme, the first of its type for the cultural sector, and this programme makes it possible for us to plan our action from a new perspective and to work to promote culture in a more comprehensive, but also more thorough and detailed manner.
Like the rapporteur, I am pleased with the Commission report, but I did deplore the fact that the report did not cover every aspect of the aid.
This is an economic community, of course, but it is also, primarily, a community of values.
If it is not adopted, Lisbon will not add much to what has already been said in the past.
I therefore welcome the continuation of the programme.
We need a directive in this area, and we also therefore want to avoid a complicated conciliation procedure.
Finally, under point 20 the motion for a resolution contains seven specific proposals for amendments to the guidelines.
The same goes for enlargement as an end in itself, without it being linked to a reform to make the European Union and its structures much more efficient, and to proposals that the Commission could have made at the IGC.
The European Union needs to recognise that when such drastic decisions are taken against conflicting scientific evidence submitted by the fishermen themselves, which have been totally rejected out of hand, for the conservation of their own fish stocks, then serious trouble can only result when these men are not heard.
The intention is clear: targeted projects are to be developed at transnational level, projects which are based on the employment policy guidelines of employability, entrepreneurship, adaptability and equal opportunities.
Macedonia' s stability is very much linked with the developments in the neighbouring countries.
Although I am not in favour of those refugees who have been refused refugee status and threatened with repatriation, having access to EQUAL, I would support the possibility of access for all other asylum-seekers and refugees.
There is certainly a need for European civil protection, and the EU budget must also provide for a budget line covering natural disasters.
We need to work.
Question No 3 by (H-0027/00):
In my opinion, we should also create a threshold below which two significant components which characterise our economic structure should be placed: small and medium-sized businesses, which bind the European economy together, and social protection, which Europe has always guaranteed to the weakest parts of the economy.
I would suggest to you to take this matter up with your political groups and raise it in the Conference of Presidents.
The debate is closed.
My question is about political prisoners held in Serbia now.
I want to focus our minds on the essential role of the guidelines.
The development partnerships are a very clever idea, even though they are experimental.
(The House rose and observed a minute' s silence)
It should be pointed out that not all the Member States have the same amount of data.
Mr President, Commissioner, as proof that this Parliament has not yet overcome its role as a consultative and subordinate institution, the excellent report by a fellow member of my Group, Elisabeth Schroedter, has not been able to reach plenary sitting because the plans for regional development for the period 2000-2006 for Objective 1 regions have been sitting in the Commission' s offices for several months.
Firms involved in the transport of dangerous goods and in the loading and unloading operations related to such transportation have been obliged, quite rightly, to comply with regulations regarding risk prevention, whether road, rail or inland waterway transport is involved.
The Europe which results from this is not stronger but weaker, as it no longer knows what it is or what it is defending.
As part of its remit we also envisage the authority operating an enhanced rapid alert system for food and feed concerns.
It must be adhered to in the interests of the fast, effective work of the conference, prior to enlargement.
We were also outraged, however, at the tolerance of the left for the tyranny, the terror and the excesses of the former USSR.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Balkans are not purely a dark cave, politically speaking.
You will tell me that situations of growth or shortage do not affect everyone alike.
Whose responsibility is it when you are dealing with a body that crosses so many frontiers?
Madam President, I would firstly like to point out Mr Poettering' s lack of logic.
What you say in your programme about concentrating on the core functions of the Commission is only the beginning.
If people are to be free to provide services across borders it is only fair and reasonable that we should have European regulations to govern it.
A system of this kind is not something the EU can introduce without society' s sustaining damage as a result.
Some can and will be implemented immediately by local authorities using existing powers, others will be incorporated into codes of practice.
A5-0069/1999 by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission White Paper on modernisation of the rules implementing Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty [COM(1999) 101 - C5-0105/1999 - 1999/2108(COS)];
If there is, we have generated it in this House in the past year.
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to clarify this.
But this directive has never been transposed into national law.
We cannot delay environmental work by going into inordinate detail rather than working on reducing total discharges of hazardous substances into the environment.
I think that it is obvious that conditions have not been met which would apply to the current situation in Austria.
When I speak of optimum utilisation, I am referring both to the national and regional levels.
The cause of these journalists is therefore one which we must embrace, although bearing in mind that the problem goes much wider and much deeper and is much more terrible.
It is not correct that the Tobin tax is technically impracticable - it is quite feasible in the age of the computer.
(The sitting was closed at 11.55 p.m.)
I know that I am a thorn in your side on this, but sometimes that is my job.
URBAN funds have been invested in one of the most deprived neighbourhoods in the UK, in Moss Side.
I would therefore like to ask the Council and the Commission what proposals they will be presenting at the forthcoming Lisbon Summit to ensure that the new economy and the new Europe we want to build will definitely include equality between men and women.
Fifthly, the importance and role of small and medium-sized businesses. Mr Vatanen expressed this most forcefully just now.
The last century was marked by three periods.
We understand that, and we recall too the sometimes short and selective memory that he has of Nazism.
The overall plan failed to do justice to any of this.
Mr President, Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, in my opinion, and as Mr Prodi said this morning, the drawing up of the Charter is an exercise with great political significance. This is because it shows that the Union places the fundamental rights of citizens at the top of the political concerns for the future of our common project.
We also agreed on provisions to address questions related to illegal immigration.
This idea will be the focus of much scrutiny and debate.
I think that this is an extremely important point: this sense of conditionality, which underlies the European Union' s position, is being maintained by the Council and will continue to be maintained.
I also propose to provide that the withdrawal of fish displaying clinical signs of disease should be immediate.
Indeed, we are still a long way from having achieved the desired objective, in any case, the objective that I wish to achieve.
It is not worthy of being brought into this report either.
Underground networks?
Company restructuring in Europe
This is important if the government wants to gain the trust of society, and also important from the point of view of effectiveness, for coherence is required in order to use the restricted means efficiently.
According to the Treaty of Amsterdam, there was no longer any reason to maintain the positive action as a tolerated departure from the principle of equal treatment which only recognises an individual right, and not a right that belongs to the society that wishes to achieve this equality democratically.
Anyway, we currently have some excellent opportunities to do more.
Nevertheless, I should like to ask two questions: Are you thinking of embarking upon continued discussions with the Swedish Government about extending the derogations, for example for as long as Denmark and Finland have derogations?
Our objective is to put in place a coherent and up-to-date body of food law by the end of 2002.
In fact, taking note of the congestion of its services due to the prior notification system of state agreements likely to cause distortions in trade, and afraid of seeing the number of notifications increase yet further with the arrival of new Member States, the Commission is proposing to do away with the prior notification system of such agreements, and to apply competition rules at Member State level in a more decentralised fashion.
It is both good and necessary that reforms have been promised.
An important part of the communication between the two institutions will obviously be to ensure that those of us who are involved in the drafting of legislation understand clearly and perfectly what it is the scientists mean, what problems they have identified, what legislation is necessary to deal with the issues they raise.
I am under the impression that the European Union has pared its ambitions down to the Petersberg tasks, with Mr Patten taking responsibility for civil affairs, which would include a police and diplomatic corps capable of being swiftly deployed, about which he has talked with enthusiasm, and rightly so, and Mr Solana taking care of the deployment of military troops and military equipment.
. (SV) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want, of course, to begin by thanking the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and, above all, the rapporteur, Mrs Lienemann for the ambitious and constructive work she has put into the present framework water directive.
I hope that this is a misunderstanding.
President.
I think that the Commission could do a great deal there to help this develop.
What we want, therefore, is for Europe to enjoy economic growth, but also be prepared to address social issues.
We should also recognise that, in Europe, our fresh water sources may be said to be on the borderline between being owned by everyone and by no-one.
We risk having not too few charters of rights in this Community, but too many: national, European Union and European Convention; not too few tribunals having the final say about our rights but possibly too many - there is the Court across the river there, there is the Court in Luxembourg.
Extending the LEADER initiative to every area in the Union entails the risk of marginalising deprived areas even more, to the benefit of more developed areas.
We really hope and believe so.
Water and air surround us everywhere.
The Lisbon European Council is trying to take a new approach to the question of social exclusion and the link between social exclusion and the information society, economic policy and reforms.
No human rights for the enemies of human rights is what the acolytes of the new world order are saying today, the new world order which reigns almost unchallenged in financial circles, in international institutions, in the media and cultural networks, and in educational institutions, to mention but a few.
The Commission expects Member States to put increased emphasis on tourism measures in their plans and programming.
Most appropriately, given that this year we are celebrating 25 years of cooperation under Lomé, we will shortly be signing a new and more advanced partnership agreement, which also upgrades the Joint Assembly into a genuine parliamentary assembly on both sides.
The first country is Indonesia.
Most of Parliament' s amendments have been taken into account and the fact that the programme has seen its total funding rise to EUR 77 million must be seen as positive.
We nonetheless very much agree with our colleagues that there is a need for transparency in connection with the Intergovernmental Conference so that people are clear as to how the work is proceeding.
It is unfortunate that the convention for protecting the Union' s financial interests has been put into effect in so few Member States.
We need to be able to confront fears and anxieties, because in many instances the greatest fear is fear itself.
Up until now, the Commission' s payments could only be made when the authorising officer signed the appropriate order and the financial controller gave his approval in the form of a visa.
Today we are asked to give our assent in effect to two treaties: the treaty on intellectual property and the treaty on interpretations, performances and phonograms.
The Russian Government appears to have lost its fundamental understanding of what democracy is about and truth appears to have become a threat in its eyes.
As for the Structural Funds, certain examples could be mentioned but I will leave this for another day.
Because anyone who develops a project and has it ready will also want to start implementing it as soon as possible.
This is why specific action for women is needed, as well as mainstreaming.
Forms of state aid that require an effort from the beneficiary are to be supported.
What are the objectives which each EU policy needs to take into account?
In very general terms, we could call the first report a left-wing one, as it addresses social issues as well as economic ones. The report we have before us now and which Mr Katiforis is reluctant to defend - and I think that he is right in this - is a hybrid report, from which the main conclusions have been removed, and is based on social concerns.
It is absolutely crucial that we involve the general public by keeping them well informed and by proceeding to consult them.
I am not going to return to what has been said about the analysis of questions concerning Parliament.
There is also a need to clarify the legal responsibilities of the mining company and of the Romanian authorities.
(The President declared the common position approved (as amended))
- (FR) I voted against the joint resolution on the situation in Austria.
Of course we would be a lot further on in our procedure if the Council administration had not forgotten to inform the European Parliament in good time and to provide it with official documents.
Fourth observation: the European Observatory and the possible use of a technical assistance office.
Between the agro-food sector and the farming sector there are over 10 million employees.
Out of a sample of women who work in and around Milan, where I live, 90% said that they do not have enough time to do all they need to in a day.
I cannot vote in favour of the sections in the Water Framework Directive which deal with these states of affairs.
Madam President, in the phrase which reads 'Where consent to the transfer is required from the person concerned' , the words 'under the national law of the requesting or requested Member State' should be added after 'Where' .
This was followed by a second period, in which the worth of female models was recognised.
The second point is human resources.
The Community contribution of over EUR 600 million in grants and loans between 1994 and 1998 effectively underpinned the Palestinian authority and contributed substantially towards the reconstruction of the deteriorated physical infrastructure in the West Bank and Gaza.
The question which I therefore ask myself is this: has in fact a start been made on how we can promote the media in this area, how we can train journalists and how we can improve information to the public on peaceful coexistence?
It is precisely with this in mind that I tabled some amendments which I consider to be of the utmost importance, and that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has subsequently taken up.
This is not in order to limit or be stingy with our financial contribution to Kosovo but, quite the contrary, to ensure that our contribution is being matched by the contributions of other donors.
We had Commissioner Patten speaking in this House in defence of freedom, security and justice and yet his report before the British House of Commons this afternoon, which has been accepted, will do away with the Royal Ulster Constabulary and its reserves and put the people of Northern Ireland of both religious sections into the hands of the terrorists.
I will be very interested to hear the views of Parliament itself in relation to this matter.
What are we actually doing then?
In the resolution, we therefore urge the Member States to increase the proportion of women involved in all aspects of conflict resolution and peace-keeping.
Of course, these are areas where the EU does not have any jurisdiction and nor should it have such jurisdiction.
What happened to the person who was responsible for that miscalculation?
Consequently, I consider that support for environmental action under the LIFE financial instrument will help to further Community policy in the environmental sector and can contribute substantially to fulfilling the Community' s mission of achieving a high level of environmental protection and improvement.
The challenges are therefore immense. The integration of the border regions will be an essential element in the development of a future European regional development policy!
It will not work as an automatic target, but must be applied in the target area according to prevailing conditions.
When this House considered the second report of the Committee of Experts last September, I pledged on behalf of the incoming Commission that the report would be treated as a fundamental ingredient in the Commission's reform proposals.
The Commission' s communication, which we are discussing today and which was put by for a decision by the Council in November, is a well-balanced report on how we can obtain a more professional debate and more knowledge of the challenges faced by the Member States in the field of social policy over the next few years when we have ageing populations and are experiencing the effects of the enlargement of the Union.
Our internal borders, or what remains of them, no longer cause wars, but they do continue to generate economic backwardness, social barriers and a lack of cultural communication between the peoples of Europe.
This is about the repression of a minority which unfortunately goes back a long time.
ICCAT also made recommendations in 1974, 1994 and 1996.
In Northern Ireland in the last thirty years too many people have been killed and injured - too many families shattered.
The repeated appeals made by the Angolan church and, for example, by Mr Mandela and Mr Mbeki, for new negotiations to try and achieve peace must be supported by this House.
In accordance with the principle of relative stability, 90% of stocks of anchovy in the Bay of Biscay are allocated to Spain and only 10% to France.
I should like to conclude by commenting on a third matter which is also of significance, namely an amendment tabled by Member of Parliament, Mr Ari Vatanen.
Certainly not!
We will be able to use the discharge procedure for 1998 to check whether efficiency, transparency and accountability, and likewise a sincere willingness to provide information, are being displayed vis-à-vis the discharge authority.
With regard to financing the European Development Fund by an amount in excess of the budget, I can say that this is being considered.
Here, we wish to stress the need for the balanced involvement of women, and the agencies that represent them, in planning and implementing the URBAN initiative programmes.
I hope that these problems can be tackled and dealt with in the context of the current discussion of the European Union Charter on Fundamental Rights.
This is why I am very hesitant when it comes to formulating Community measures to promote employment.
Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Andersson on his really excellent work, which is the reason why there is broader agreement, and I also thank the Members of Parliament involved for their contribution.
I think that we need to make a tangible gesture in order to get a solution to this problem underway.
Far too often, artificial fertiliser, veterinary medication and a host of other items are provided to farmers free of charge.
What we also need urgently is an impact assessment study on the effect of merger in every situation.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
It is a fact that we are debating this programme today because the European Parliament insisted that this initiative should be maintained.
I am sure you are aware, Mr Alavanos, that, during her recent visit to NATO headquarters, Prosecutor Del Ponte stressed that the International Tribunal was obliged to examine all accusations presented to it, including those made against NATO, in particular by pacifist groups from Canada.
For example, there are currently companies which set up in Holland because the postal charges are lower than in Germany and the same may happen in the future.
Here is a real step forward, in the new system that has been agreed.
The same can be said with regard to transfers.
The world has certainly moved on significantly in recent months and many events have occurred. However, I will wait for question time to give specific answers to any questions you may have for me.
As soon as the opinion is adopted here in Parliament, the guidelines for LEADER+ will again be presented to the STAR Committee so that the Member States can confirm the provisional agreement which they gave on 14 November.
One way forward to promote the setting up of SMEs could be to train the Nigerian population adequately.
Let me remind you that the time limit for this programme is six months.
The fabric of Turkey' s government contains a few Haider-type personalities.
This is particularly true of what Mrs McCarthy said about URBAN. I should like to thank her not only for her work and for the report which she presented but also - and I do not see why I in turn should not say so too - for all we owe her, for all you owe her as far as this is initiative, as well as, more generally, all we owe Parliament.
Clear progress must be visible.
I am sure the honourable Member did not mean that.
The Romanians have approached UNEF and OCHA, in Geneva, for an assessment of the damage in the Danube catchment area by an independent and international team of experts.
I have a suspicion that this is the case, but I am not certain.
Let me make clear the main elements of those draft directives.
Indeed, whilst the young are penniless, the elderly have accumulated money and, since they are keen to turn it to good advantage, harbour great hopes for this directive.
Has it been discussed?
They then drew the conclusion that population size should be reflected in the voting system and that the United Kingdom would not surrender its veto.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 9 a.m.
Bilateral relations involve the States, so the 14 do not come into this.
I likewise expect the European Commission to make a clear declaration undertaking to submit a proposal to ensure that water pricing policies reflect the environmental costs and the costs in terms of resources by 2012.
I thank them for their statements to the House.
Our President told us yesterday that the Commissioner would be unable to attend today due to prior commitments.
I therefore believe that something is missing and I suggest that we establish more regulations, lay down clear rules, which will benefit all of us: businesspeople, investors, workers and the citizens in general.
It is alleged in a circular that the price of postage has gone up by 59 per cent since liberalisation in 1993.
By pitching the percentage level at 5%, which is now likely to be the case, it is almost certain that hundreds of thousands of small cacao farmers in developing countries will be put at a disadvantage.
Consequently, we must cut off the supply of the original source of danger, i.e. harmful additives in feedingstuffs.
Second part
Or are we talking about large-scale hydraulic works and reservoirs?
Question No 46 by (H-0052/00):
However, the fact that the updating and sending of data are purely optional and that this involves a very wide range of data and sectors may distort the final objective of the Commission' s proposal.
It is precisely upon price levels that consumer policy has failed to focus sufficiently.
We now have available to us a working paper from the Commission' s services on a breakthrough campaign, which is in fact a crucial element of this Community strategy.
I hope that the Minister will take some time to pursue that particular issue.
There are only a few weeks to go before the elections.
It must also be mentioned that this budget experiences a rate of consumption of appropriations which is quite exceptional within the Community budget.
However, this Parliament wishes to add policies to aid development, agriculture, fisheries policy, immigration, our position in international financial institutions, the common foreign and security policy and aid for structural reform.
For Europe to become the symbol of peace and fraternity, we need a bold and generous policy to come to the aid of the most disadvantaged.
Here, unfortunately, the European Parliament has bowed to the interests of industry.
. I welcome this proposal to protect the Euro against forgers.
I adamantly believe that the main risk to the world economy in the foreseeable future is not inflation, but deflation generated as the speculative bubbles, created by what Alan Greenspan calls irrationally exuberant markets, burst.
There is a chemical factory in the north-west which wrote to me to say that we must vote against this legislation.
That is our role and this is the point of my question.
Exactly which new data are to be collected and what is to be aggregated from these and existing data will be specified by an implementing regulation.
We want EQUAL to go ahead.
The implications for the environment and for the flora and fauna of the European maritime environment are enormous.
However, to focus on the European Union as it is today, and on the subject of government and governance - a word which, at least in Spanish, brings to mind the previous name of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, although it may be an appropriate word anyway -, the most important thing is that the European Union be provided with a good government, and, since President Prodi always defends his home town, Bologna, I would advise him to go to Siena for a while and see something which we all understand: the frescos of Ambrogio Lorenzetti, which speak of bon governo [good government] and mal governo [bad government].
Mr President, from this year until the year 2006 around EUR 200 billion is available for the Structural Funds, but only 5¾ % is set aside for the Community initiatives, INTERREG, LEADER, URBAN and EQUAL.
They made it clear to me that the arguments concerning lack of safety, for example, are nonsense.
Where necessary, workers likely to be affected were prepared through employability measures to face the challenge of sudden unemployment.
These old vehicles are testimony to a culture and a passion which should be recognised and respected by Europe, if we are not to water down each of our specific identities.
Regarding the situation in Carinthia, we need to look at this in detail.
This is an absolute priority if you are to reconcile Europe with the people and ensure that the people choose Europe rather than Jörg Haider.
The Commission' s legislative delay on certain issues should not surprise us, but for the fact that this is a recommendation from one of the most important international fisheries organisations on the protection of such a threatened resource as tuna.
Some speakers have already mentioned unemployment and the fall in population.
(Loud applause)
Again, because these conciliations are not entirely straight forward, we have to thank Vice-President Imbeni for his exemplary negotiating skills in the convoluted field of ensuring that cultural expenditure is wisely deployed and given to us in our Community.
My group has debated this matter and considers that, given the current situation of the whole process of market integration and deregulation in such a sensitive area, it is appropriate that Parliament makes an initial statement, regardless of any action it may take in the future, so that Commissioner Bolkestein may take good note and in order to guide next week' s debate.
We now have the opportunity to put into practice those measures to which we agreed under the OSPAR Convention.
It is not, therefore, the case that one must begin with a cost-benefit analysis.
These amendments deal with the social economy and the need to provide social risk capital and support financially local schemes to develop employment opportunities and strengthen social cohesion.
That is the reality.
I hope to have a debate with the European Parliament and with civil society on this scoreboard project.
The defamation of minorities in newspapers and other media fuels discrimination.
The fact is, whether through weakness or foolishness - nothing to be proud of either way, you will admit - in rushing to give its opinion, Parliament is giving up the only lever which the Treaty accords it, i.e. demanding a complete IGC agenda as a prerequisite before declaring its opinion.
The first proposal for a directive will authorise businesses established in a Member State which employ workers who are third country nationals to assign such employees to another Member State on a temporary basis to provide services there.
The text is overambitious, and Britain' s Labour MEPs believe that the IGC should primarily deal with the "Amsterdam left-overs" in order to prepare for enlargement, and not expand far beyond these.
(SV) We are pleased that a limited agenda has been established for the Intergovernmental Conference at the Helsinki Conference.
But if the Tobin tax were to be applied unilaterally in order to prevent attacks on a specific currency, then this tax could not be effective and it could harm the internal financial market.
This is why Europe is not credible as a Union.
We shall therefore look into it properly to ensure that everything is as it should be.
For example, discussion is taking place about many of the matters raised in Parliament' s resolution and it is too early to predict the outcome in all cases.
My message to you is: do not take the necessary and proper courtesies of form to mean that I have been less firm in the content.
It is for reasons of constitutionality that the President-in-Office of the Council ought not to have made the statement he did, and in a manner that goes against the Treaty.
Moreover, it is all just words, because the Socialist governments, which are now in a majority in Europe, are just as incapable of taking action to prevent redundancies as right-wing governments.
I believe that if it is understood properly, the regional approach is both important and necessary.
This means that we will have a central financial service to provide financial management guidance and advice, decentralisation in every Directorate-General of the entire chain, that is of programmes, undertakings, contracts, expenditure and the related ex ante control systems, and an external auditing service which will direct these operations.
There are reputable companies too.
Key stakeholders, including consumers, are seeking a system that is independent and perceived to be independent of all vested interests.
Nevertheless, we believe, and I think this is also how the Commission sees things, that the whole process of approximation with the acquis communautaire with a view to overall integration of the island in the European Union through accession at some point in the future implies involving the communities in the north of the island as soon as possible. It may also give the European Union access to data enabling it to justify accession, as part of its efforts to assess accession conditions.
The Commission believes strongly that press freedom and free speech will be crucial for progress with peace and reconciliation in Angola.
The Erika cost no human lives but it may have ruined many human livelihoods. Just as the Sea Empress, just as the Braer did.
The emphasis is on local groups in which the authorities, non-profit-making organisations and profit-making companies join forces.
And indeed there is a twofold shift.
Legal security requires this.
I should like to welcome in particular the new LEADER+ programme because of its comprehensive nature.
It allows a choice to be made only where special qualifications are needed which relate directly to the activity in question.
This requires a clear example to be set by Commissioners and senior staff as well as adequate training and secondly, by reinforcing the existing mechanisms for dealing with fraud.
Due to the existence of these borders, they have become peripheral areas within the countries to which they belong. This has too often led the national authorities to neglect these regions in national policy.
What is required is that those responsible for the modernisation process, which continues to be closely linked to the promotion of social cohesion despite the underlying differences, should have the will and the know-how to ensure that changes are for the better and not for the worse.
How do we ensure that unlawful state aid is paid back?
If not, we are not prepared to pay for their war, since, by reducing the debt, by giving them money, we are paying their soldiers to carry out the massacres.
However, that should not prevent us from harmonising the text in order to ensure that there is no legal uncertainty between the various directives.
These are only two examples of a trend in Angola to silence any government critics.
I would therefore like to ask the Council if it is prepared henceforth to support culture with the same readiness as it supported bananas, hops, cows and Indian hemp.
Report (A5-0015/2000) by Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 70/524/EEC concerning additives in feedingstuffs (COM(1999) 388 - C5-0134/1999 - 1999/0168(CNS))
I myself have been involved in the committee of inquiry on transit traffic.
Mr President, Torrey Canyon, Olympic Bravery, Haven, Amoco Cadiz, Gino, Tanio, so many names we remember with horror.
But we must also preserve the original spirit of the Lomé Convention, which has enabled relations between the European Union and the ACP to become what they are today: a real partnership based on fairness and mutual respect.
Question No 5 by (H-0785/99):
I would therefore appreciate your support for Amendment No 45.
The problem is that the cost is not shared equally between the consumer and the producer: the producer has been forced to bear all the cost.
The UN Fish Stocks Agreement of 1995 would serve as a very good model in this regard.
For these reasons, we are going to vote in favour of the report.
It is about the WCT (World Copyright Treaty) and the WPPT (World Performance and Phonograms Treaty).
Women are the foremost victims of human rights abuses such as rape, sexual offences, domestic violence and the trade in women, but they are under-represented on the legal and legislative bodies which pronounce upon these crimes.
I would prefer it if a report were to be written on the present lack of cohesion, and if a systematic strategy were to be developed to reach a certain level of cohesion, for it is a long way off yet.
It is not, therefore, perhaps so strange that the euro is continuing to lose ground to other currencies, in spite of rumours to the effect that the European Central Bank is purchasing the euro on the quiet in order to support it.
So it is a step forward.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
My conclusion regarding INTERREG, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is that these Community initiatives for which I am responsible fulfil a real need and everything that has been said is proof of this. They also foreshadow a real European regional planning policy within our enlarged Union.
I am thinking here of the very sound words of Mr Rübig, who also talked about e-commerce.
Indeed, it is in line with some thirty Russian media bodies which yesterday distributed a special issue on Andrey Babitsky free of charge.
Now what is going to happen if we retain a ceiling of 700, bring in 26% more population over time, and then adopt the Commission' s, I think ill-considered, proposition, that there should be a European list of candidates.
But it is precisely here that we find the real rationale behind the mantra concerning security, freedom and justice.
I should like to make it clear that we have the greatest confidence in and respect for Commissioner Monti.
Thirdly, the European Union should undertake to enhance its monitoring and prevention of extensive pollution prevalent in Community waters and which is harmful to marine life including fishery resources.
Within the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the Jonckheer report has given rise to bitter controversy on the subject of the operation of the market.
Madam President, the best tribute that my Group and this House can pay to Fernando Buesa is to take on board his vision, as a European, of the Basque Country, Spain and Europe.
I believe that the principle of relative stability is a fundamental legal principle of the common fisheries policy and a proposal to subvert it would be legally inadmissible.
I also favour the desire to move away from an out-dated format and to bring partners together in search of innovative ways to tackle unemployment.
Article 34, a product of the Treaty of Amsterdam, only lays down the new form of a framework decision, and clearly this only applies to the existing powers of the European Union.
I also want to move towards a linear career system because the current category system is no longer adapted to the needs of our institutions.
Moreover, Europe as a continent is a great deal more than just the fifteen EU Member States.
Hypocrisy and fine-sounding words such as convergence, benchmarking, modernisation and concerted action are not going to extricate us from those contradictions.
The next item is the report (A5-0104/1999) by Mr Koch, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 94/55/EC on the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road [COM(1999) 158 - C5-0004/1999 - 1999/0083(COD)].
Anyone of my age - I am 54 - can remember their grandparents' era and their parents' era and, of course, is living in the current era. We can also see into the era in which our children will live.
After all, we are all familiar with the reports from Amnesty International.
The strict basic conditions attached to the issue of the EU service provision card - and I am with Mr Wieland on this - are essential, for they will serve to prevent abuses such as illegal entry and bogus contracts.
Some have said it is not right for us to interfere in Austrian politics.
The President of the Council comes from a country, Portugal, which is directly at risk from just this type of situation.
I can also accept the idea in the second proposed paragraph of Amendment No 47.
The basis for all this is that we should be encouraging individual innovation and entrepreneurship, as group action begun by the individual will help revitalise an area internally.
Mr President, since the signature of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the European Union has had responsibility for combating racism and xenophobia.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, the greatest legacy which your Commission could pass on to the European Union would be to help resettle and redistribute the increasingly jumbled and confused powers and competences of the Commission, and perhaps of the Union itself.
So our clear response is that, yes, such aid and such agreements are legitimate, but we say that every single one of these agreements must be expressly justified.
Reforming the Commission
I must say I have received extremely contradictory statements from Parliament' s services as to exactly how these Council decisions should be quoted; whether or not one should use the number or date alone, or both, and how extensively to quote from them.
If that is the case I can say at least that after prolonged and at times engaging discussion each way in my own Group, I believe that if we have demanded in this House as we have done that we have responsibility at each level in the Commission, its necessary counterpart is that we free people up to be managers.
It is unrealistic to go on causing the quality of our water to deteriorate and so, too, the conditions for life.
We will continue to raise Tibet with the Chinese authorities.
I think that the Commission could have been more pro-active on this score and could have also provided us with the studies which it had promised to give us and which we had requested.
I refer to Cuba' s expression of intent, of 2 February, to become a full member of the ACP group of countries.
In order to make our actions effective, we must implement a type of coordination in practice which does not exist at present.
Michelin caused a great stir.
Proposal for a resolution (B5-0136/2000) by Mr Queiro, Mrs Muscardini and Mr Berthu, on behalf of the UEN Group, on the Commission' s strategic objectives for 2000-2005
Mr President, in my previous life I ran two manufacturing businesses, one in the United Kingdom and one in the Netherlands.
The end result will be that existing companies will also be forced into bad practices.
A period of ten years, as proposed in Amendments Nos 24 and 26, among others, is, on the other hand, too short.
Where does all that leave us this year?
Lastly, I would like to mention the profoundly human impression I have formed of the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura: his knowledge, his sense of balance, his intellectual qualities, make him, in my opinion, the best possible rapporteur this report could have had.
The report shows that growth has been uneven, despite all our efforts.
The directive and the reputation which UCITS enjoy with investors have allowed the investment fund industry to multiply its assets in the European Union fivefold.
It should be noted that the oil industry, through the International Oil Pollution Compensation Funds, regards itself as liable under the 1969 Convention and its 1992 Protocol, for over 90% of the estimated cost of this incident, or some USD 170 million.
That is what Culture 2000 is about.
I have found a number of studies which were commissioned by the European Commission at the time, and I am also coming across documents from Post-Europe which claims that these studies are inaccurate and that the basis on which these were carried out is incorrect.
There are less than three dozen at the apex of the European judicial order - hardly an overload given the responsibility of their tasks at the heart of the European legal system.
We will certainly raise the point made by the honourable Member.
Mr President, I must start by apologising that I cannot be nearly as dramatic as Mr Elles in my presentation.
We hope that those considering rejection of these amendments have very powerful reasons to offer to both Parliament and their citizens who are seeking employment.
The point was very properly raised by Mr Elles and referred to by Mrs Thors.
It does deal with the substance of the problem some of you have raised.
However, this technical amendment is not the correct instrument to introduce such initiatives.
In taking over the mandate, the new Commission has to assume responsibility not just for the achievements of the past but also for the mistakes made.
This omission must be remedied as a matter of urgency.
I should like to make it plain that our programme reflects that intention, but there is certainly room for improvement.
It should have existed for a long time because women represent more than half of society and it seems quite clear to me that it is natural for them to represent at least 50%, if not more, of those within decision-making bodies and, inter alia, in the political arena.
The plastics industry for the most part does not want to take these things back and cannot economically do so.
It is this that gives us the determination to defend ourselves against external threats, not the constraining, convoluted decision making procedures which the Commission thought it could propose at the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference.
Austria is a stable democracy; one in which human rights and fundamental freedoms are guaranteed under the constitution and are afforded the protection of an independent judiciary.
That was a point made very forcibly by the leader of my group, Mr Poettering, in his opening address.
If these do not materialise, then, unfortunately, convergence and cohesion will remain no more than words for us, and it is to be feared that the structural policy undertaken in our regions, despite the size of the amounts committed, will end in failure.
I enthusiastically support the report's proposal to publish a "scoreboard" showing the amount of state aid per Member State.
Any EU funding for the project must be stopped because it is in clear breach of EU directives.
Secondly: the introduction of a Europe-wide fight against organised crime, including by Europol and Eurojust.
This is a smear on the voters in my neighbouring country which I cannot condone.
Mr President, there are two issues of principle in the Council' s draft directive.
Madam President, I asked for the floor before the sitting started in order to say something solely intended for you as President of this House. We have a procedure for visits to be made to this House to report on certain situations.
Over the last year, the Member States of the Union have, naturally, decided to implement specific measures designed to strengthen the operational capability of their armed forces and the informal summit in Sintra, held the day before yesterday in your presence, has just confirmed the main trends.
The increase in the number of CFI judges from 15 to 21 and the opportunity it has recently been accorded to have a single judge rule on specific cases are not real solutions but mere decoys, grudgingly granted, which we have become aware of after the fact.
You have the fine, charming idea that the outcome and the benchmark for your policy and for your five-year programme will be the result of the elections, or rather the turnout at the next European elections.
There was only one point that you really stressed - too much in my opinion - and that was that it looks almost as if the highest priority task that you are setting yourself is to cease "unnecessary" activities.
The unfettered rise in prices of financial assets and property means that the risks are on the increase.
Mr President, we are indeed now in a very rare situation: those who wish to uphold environmental values will take the side of the Council in their common position.
This requires staff training, more modern recruitment methods and, above all, openness and public control.
However, the delayed presentation of the draft guidelines has caused a number of problems.
We are to know when they meet.
In my Member State, for example, we are developing a strategic approach in a White Paper and an urban government taskforce is looking at the problems of urban communities.
There is no future for a Union which is merely a geo-strategic concept or for a Union which is merely a free trade zone.
In this area we must respond to public opinion.
In the two documents, strong emphasis is placed on the need to define new forms of European governance and, to this end, to introduce a new agenda for the Commission, establishing more stringent priorities in the pursuit of the goal of full employment, through more efficient coordination of the economic and social policies of the States, and, primarily - allow me to stress this - of the nations that have joined the monetary union and which must be enabled to become the first example of closer cooperation.
It seems important, in this respect, to underline that the service provision card will be issued in a flexible manner, namely within five days of a simple declaration' s having been submitted to a Member State where the service will be provided; and that, also to prevent misuse, this document will have a restricted period of validity which will not be automatically extended.
Proposed additions, such as repeated references to the ECHR, the rights of the counsel for the defence and of the defendant and the failure of Member States to implement the ECHR, add too much unnecessary information to the text of the agreement.
I would like to add that the flight from Amsterdam' s Schipol airport was also delayed and then cancelled.
We all know the picture.
There is a Paris Memorandum in existence, let me remind you, which stipulates a minimum for inspection, that is, one in four of the vessels putting into European ports must be inspected by the maritime authorities of the country concerned.
If we simply import raw materials from these developing countries, rather than allowing them the add-on value of producing their finished articles in their own country, we deny them the very poverty-eradication that we have set as our top principle in helping developing nations.
Since, however, the Community is funding the exercise, it was felt appropriate for it to see a direct return on its investment.
The first is that this matter is sub judice in several European countries, and I would like to remind Members that there is still no European judicial area nor a European legal system.
In addition, experience from other fields where observatories have been set up shows that, apart from rather dubiously creating jobs, they are not of any great benefit.
There is a risk, however, that all the effort that has been made in recent years, after all the problems with the peace agreements, with which we are all familiar, will have been wasted as a result of the natural forces that have been unleashed on Mozambique over the last few weeks.
You may draw your own conclusions.
However, the aid needed now is difficult to get through, despite the efforts of the NGOs, because the roads, bridges and railway lines are damaged.
I can assure you that the Commission will do its best to promote the debate on the future Charter of Fundamental Rights.
This does not mean that we sympathise with Haider.
I note that the Union is preparing to lift certain sanctions and that we have not seen even one of these prisoners released in exchange.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was and always will be one of life' s mysteries, one of the unsolved riddles of the follow-up to the BSE crisis, that we still have no Community rules for the control of scrapie in sheep.
Experience has shown that the old monopolies cannot provide the type of efficient service which, as customers, we are all entitled to expect.
My own view as a former development minister is that these issues should be mainstreamed themselves and tackled at the heart of training and not turned into a sort of optional add-on.
The Commission has proposed creating a European fund for refugees to which Parliament was favourably disposed.
The Commission has done this in its five-year plan by listing one of the four priorities.
That most certainly is the intention of the Commission.
We are aware that in this age of strategic alliances and millennium mergers - in 1998 USD 2 400 billion was paid out in connection with take-overs - restrictive practices are being held in check, not just by our own rules but also by bilateral cooperation with the USA or Japan, or others, until we get the international competition law we so badly need.
Rather than make these objectives legally binding, we must consider their political nature.
But more vital still is a Europe that feels strong in the political arena.
Since the time allocated to Questions to the Commission has elapsed, Questions 46 to 68 will be replied to in writing.
The second concern which I notice that many of you share - it was first expressed by Mr Bourlanges, but others have repeated it - refers to the situation regarding the other donors.
Journalists, on the other hand, who are simply going about their work in Russia, i.e. endeavouring to produce reports which are as objective as possible, are being treated like criminals.
I have the feeling they are just another compulsory exercise we have to perform.
On one hand, there are the words and, on the other, their real political meaning.
Madam President, we the Belgian Christian Democrats are concerned as, fortunately, are a great many other Members too.
I also welcome the Commission's communication.
When the talk turns to quota allocation by gender, the word "qualifications" also crops up.
This is an irreparable loss.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express the satisfaction I have in noting that the most remote regions, including the French overseas departments, have received some attention in connection with the INTERREG III initiative, opening up new perspectives for their cooperation with other countries in their geographical area, even though it is true that more could have been expected, particularly with regard to access to the various strands.
Overall we have a system which has made some progress.
After all, there is no longer mention of a European Public Prosecutor, rather, for legal reasons it has now become an independent, European authority, or "body" to quote Mrs Theato.
States can carry out port inspections.
Unfortunately, there has been no change in the way that the Council always talks about culture but fails to allocate any money for it.
Secondly, the approval of investments - where the parameters are binding when drawing up action programmes on employment - to be made in individual countries via Community projects in the priority sectors of research, innovation and training.
The second point relates to Syria.
Thank you for your answer.
I am sure that we will improve on that in the future when we have had a good high-level working group report, your support with your report here and also when the tourism sector is part of enterprise policy.
The Council is aware of the critical level of anchovy stocks in the Bay of Biscay to which Mr Ortuondo Larrea refers.
We demand that the greatest possible transparency should be in place and that greater powers of investigation be granted to the Commission in order to check the legitimacy of such exceptions after the fact.
Our ambitions and our work will be followed not only by people in our own countries, but also by many people outside Europe and the European Union.
There is no direct transition between INTERREG II and III, the practical consequences of which are uncertainty in terms of planning and gaps in funding.
However, we can see today that the conciliation end result quite clearly bears the trademark of the European Parliament throughout.
The first criticism is of the system whereby the Commission is monitored, scrutinised, controlled if you like, only by a committee appointed by Member States or the Council not by Parliament.
The Commission has an aid system that is too complex and fragmented in terms of instruments, procedures and institutional mechanisms.
Agricultural needs are clearly much greater in the south and this specific point must be taken into account in the framework directive.
Thirdly, unless they are introduced in all countries at the same time, tax measures are easy to circumvent because there are otherwise too many loopholes.
That is the thrust of an amendment which we have tabled; it favours all the languages of the Community and our agreement to the second directive will depend on it.
However, I am obliged to respect the national authority with which I must conduct these negotiations.
Your behaviour stems from your own prejudices, you are dispensing with any form of political debate and you are displaying precisely the kind of behaviour you claim to oppose.
We recognise the proposals on activity-based budgeting.
We need a more dynamic vision based on tourism' s contribution to job creation.
Protocol on the excessive deficit procedure
The Commission' s intentions in this area are positive, as it intends to reinforce the application of the 1995 directive.
These values must be given expression in the form of solidarity with the weaker groups in our society and in the world around us.
I will do everything I can to promote that high profile role for the authority.
We support that.
We also want to be exemplary in our advanced use of information technology.
(The sitting was suspended at 1.55 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
They are involved in low-profile work of valuable cultural importance.
At the end of 1999 there were almost 15 000 investment funds registered as UCITS with a total value of in excess of EUR 2 billion, thereby accounting for roughly 75% of all funds assets.
This is a subject which is not given sufficient attention.
In doing so, we need, no less, to reinvent the European Union, but without destroying the present Union.
What we have here is an ecological disaster.
It is in this spirit that I have three criticisms to make. These must be taken into account if we are truly to shape the new Europe, as proclaimed ambitiously by the title of the Commission document and Mr Prodi' s speech and do so in reality not rhetoric.
I know that this directive may have problems, given the differing situations of the various countries of the Union, as has already been mentioned.
It has once again been demonstrated that conciliation is incompatible with the demand for unanimity in the Council.
No European society can truly flourish when it harbours the risk of seeing one section of its population fall prey to the hatred of the other.
In that sense, we need to be able to export a culture based on legality and respect for the law.
It should also be noted that of the 19 departments, 4 already have administrative leadership, which represents an improvement on the situation there hitherto.
Competition policy must continue to be accorded central importance and will not be renationalised because this would jeopardise the internal market and Europe as a business location in a global economy.
The report also comments that in Greece there are no plans for medium to long-term measures aimed at reducing employment tax and insurance charges, or for the satisfactory use of European Social Fund resources to support employment policies, and, in addition, that there are no exact employment figures.
No, it does not!
In the world of networking, the mail service is the most democratic of all networks.
This is now the opportunity to reiterate to Mr Patten, Mr Solana and Mr Moratinos how much we are relying on their efforts to include Europe in the search for a peaceful solution to the conflict.
The most remote regions, still hard hit by catastrophic unemployment rates, offer one example of this.
I would like to point out to Mrs Albright that what we have read recently in the press is true, and that figures do not lie.
In theory, we could have done so.
This is a basic element of the decision.
It would weaken a key element of European policy.
None of us think much of the principle of indiscriminate, all-round distribution, and the pilot projects need to act, as it were, like avalanches and trigger other similar projects.
The Commission' s programme shows a disturbing complacency about the completion of the internal market.
In the area in Scotland I come from it is much more than just a postal service.
We may not have enough between the fifteen countries which will have to make an additional effort to meet the proposed needs.
What is actually needed in those circumstances is something between the armed forces and community policing.
This is what we need for ships.
It simplifies things and brings things up to date.
It is a fact that these substances are now being discovered. There are increased concentrations of them in both people and the environment.
As has been advocated for the Lisbon Summit, we must prepare our workforce for the new technologies by giving them scientific training.
The aim of this proposal for a regulation is to set up the first programme to implement the strategy for Cyprus and Malta, starting in the year 2000 and lasting for five years (2000-2004).
I have also noted, to my great satisfaction, that even the groups advocating greater national sovereignty, or the eurosceptic groups are calling for Europe to regulate, and I think that this is in fact the right level to take action.
I must thank Commissioner Patten who is here today for his support and the tremendous energy that he has also invested in trying to ensure that all these issues could be settled in such a short time.
We must not kill the goose that lays the golden egg of tourism.
I would have liked to see the same outrage in Europe when the socialists were prepared to make common cause with the successors to the misanthropic and persecutory regime in the DDR.
I am pleased about the fact that the European Parliament supports my group' s idea and we hope, Commissioner, that we can also count on your support.
I support all efforts to close the gap in economic development in infrastructural provisions, including the energy sector.
As a member of the convention that has now taken up its work on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, I wish to make the following point clear: neither my group nor I are content with making a solemn announcement about the Charter.
I would like once again to thank all who helped in this conciliation process.
At the same time, the obligation to engage in transnational cooperation, the complicated demands of the plan and the implementation of a development partnership inevitably require large structures, as these are the only structures which can meet such demands.
It is not acceptable to continue as if nothing had happened.
At present, we are witnessing a number of large mergers between companies which originate in an Anglo-Saxon tradition and companies with a Rhineland tradition.
We are very happy to proceed as rapidly as possible.
I will speak of this briefly. If you wish to ask questions at the appropriate time, I will be pleased to answer them.
Mr President, amongst the various issues being dealt with in this joint debate, I would like to comment on the one mentioned by Mr Berenguer, that is to say, the modernisation of competition policy, which is the subject of the Commission' s White Paper.
However, the measures set out in this resolution are derisory in terms of combating the policy of the major industrial groups which are shedding jobs and exacerbating unemployment.
Once again, an indigenous people' s right of existence is being threatened.
Finally, Mr President, the 1996 discharge was the beginning of the end of the last Commission.
Mr President, I too agree that the convention that we are examining is but a small step - and still too small a step - towards the construction of the common area of freedom, security and justice which Europe will hopefully one day become.
I applaud the innovative approach of the EQUAL programme and the aim of integrating discriminated groups into the labour market.
There is one wish on the European Parliament' s long wish list that will be fulfilled: as we have already heard, the Joint Assembly will soon also be able to hold regional assemblies.
This situation, as in neighbouring former Zaire, is like a festering wound in which it is not clear who is infecting whom. As Mr Soares just said, a truly terrible situation is developing in Angola and in other countries in the region.
For this hardly honourable position, Mr Kouchner blames none other than the Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Chevènement.
There is an irreconcilable contradiction between positions adopted in the name of human rights and the rule of law, but which at the same time attack the fundamental rights of the Austrians and ride roughshod over the basic tenets of the rule of law, in this case the standards laid down in the Treaties.
The overall objective therefore of the White Paper on food safety is to put in place the necessary legislation and structures that will guarantee the highest possible level of health protection for consumers arising from the consumption of food.
If revenue is lost, then public interest operations will be revised and cut, and again it is in rural areas that the most swingeing cuts will be made.
The European Union prefers to send its funds to Eastern Europe, the former USSR and Asia, where there is greater opportunity for profit.
Subject: Turkish blockade of Armenia Given that the European Union is actively promoting social, economic and political relations with Armenia through the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement signed on 12 October 1999, what steps is the Commission taking to persuade the Turkish Government to lift the economic blockade of Armenia?
We must argue for equality of the sexes, the famous 'gender mainstreaming' , which is one of the least developed questions in the Prodi Commission' s programme.
Will you be adding that into your audit progress committee' s work?
I think that it also a good thing if, moreover, the European Parliament tried to convince the Council to substantiate the common strategy as early on as in Lisbon and to launch an annual procedure to reduce poverty levels no later than at the beginning of 2001.
The matter is still open.
As long as we have no status, we are not credible as a force for reforming the Union. The reforms of the European institutions are necessary in order to be able to continue Europe' s development process.
Alas, there have been far too many instances of collective aid for which no-one feels responsible being derailed and we do not want to extend this disastrous system to the EDF.
I consider this to be the wrong way forward for several reasons.
The use of energy and scarce raw materials should be drastically reduced
In Europe today, the tourism market contributes 5.5% of the gross national product and occupies a rather significant proportion of the workforce, approximately 6%.
I believe that, over time, the Council of the European Union has clearly demonstrated that this is not how it sees this issue.
But I will give two examples from which it is not as evident that the good intentions which the Commission has now expressed will lead to a good outcome: the public nature and confidentiality of documents.
Indeed, they were still subject to endless bureaucratic immigration procedures of the Member States where a service had to be provided.
Firstly, LIFE is the only direct financial instrument which is designed to promote environmental policy within the European Union.
We also notice that, according to the explanatory statement, modernisation does not mean harmonisation of social security arrangements, either, and that harmonisation might be downright damaging as it might place greater demands on weaker Member States at the same time that competitive considerations might exert pressure on others to cut back.
I think that we really do need a careful report and conclusions from the Commission, so that we as the European Parliament can see if we need to ensure that the European Union achieves real international solidarity with the USA and Japan in making the economy and the financial markets more stable and secure.
The European Parliament must now opt for a sustainable water policy as a starting point and remain realistic at the same time.
I, together with the European Parliament' s Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, are therefore of the opinion that the Commission has chosen the right legal bases and that the opposite view, as expressed in the report produced by the Council' s Legal Service, is inappropriate.
We have set minimum requirements at European level, which all Member States and all companies must observe when contemplating job losses, especially when they are massive, or preparing other decisions likely to affect workers.
We need to consider how we will deal with situations of this kind.
However, I will just remind you that the meeting in Bergen showed very significantly that a proper policy on the sea must be created.
I think that pension funds could also benefit from this possibility, provided that management companies are not lumped together with pension funds, but may only carry out part of the management per delegation.
Then you decide to take a measure or not, to take action or not.
I am not so sure that our Dutch Members will be reassured on the grounds that the Irish Members too are unable to receive a national channel.
It would be helpful to stress this convergence of intentions and efforts because I can see a particular problem with coordination, specifically between the Commission initiative - which certainly does not only address members of national parliaments, but also members of national parliaments - and our committee' s programme. Following the working meeting of 1 February, which Commissioner Barnier referred to and which benefited from the weighty contribution of the Commission, the committee intends to take stock of developments at the Intergovernmental Conference at all of its meetings.
There was also an observatory under LEADER I and LEADER II.
It is about artists' entitlement to copyright or to protection for their artistic products.
It should not be the case that the policy of the Member States contravenes that of the Commission.
Unfortunately, no initiatives have yet materialised regarding other matters and we still await them.
. I regret to say that I believe that the thought-out position I advanced yesterday is the correct position.
Consequently, I feel we must look to the future and establish guidelines for the mid-term review in 2003, and thus have an influence on the second phase of programming set to follow 2003.
(Loud applause)
I have some sympathy with the Commission's standpoint that derogations should only be granted occasionally.
This is, for example, the position expressed by Mr Berthu.
The only court that could reasonably do so would be the Court of First Instance.
We are sufficiently responsible to realise that we should only include those which we will be able to manage during the term of our Presidency and - we should always be aware of this - within governments' ability to act and within the scope of the Council.
Mr President, the situation regarding fresh water in Europe is not as serious as in other parts of the world but, in general terms, it is a fact that the demand for water has continued to grow and its quality has continued to decrease.
I think it is a good thing that so many of us are expressing support for the approach he has adopted in it.
We would, in this way, violate democracy.
Secondly, the deficit - or, if applicable, the surplus - means the ESA 95 government sector' s net borrowing requirement or lending ability respectively
We shall give an opinion - which is technically and legally necessary - on convening the IGC on 14 February, but we shall give an unfavourable opinion of its content.
These are a few introductory remarks concerning the key amendments.
Firstly, I would like to see a Joint Parliamentary Assembly of elected members from ACP countries and not ambassadors or government ministers sitting there as delegates.
Public monopolies are, more often than not, phased out reluctantly.
.
Ladies and gentlemen, none of us must forget what has taken place.
Secondly we are conducting a programme of social integration.
National policy is, of course, subject to a number of common parameters. That is the case with minimum social entitlements, which are established by treaty.
The same provision was included in the Structural Funds Regulation which means that it applies to all investments cofinanced by the structural funds.
This is why, I urge you to support the amendments tabled by Bernd Lange. These amendments will be supported by the Group of the Party of European Socialists since they effectively reconcile all the interests involved - economic interests and environmental constraints - while granting Member States the freedom to select the means to implement these constraints, since these amendments envisage that the systems in place in the Members States, and some of them work perfectly well, will be able to continue to operate.
Both the WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty constitute progress in the international protection of copyright and neighbouring rights and are, as such, a considerable improvement on the Berne Convention and the Treaty of Rome.
The funny thing about the Andersson report is that it does not get bogged down with too many details of how everything should take shape; from this perspective it is not a pie-in-the-sky report.
As I have said before in this House, the Commission is convinced that the Convention must be able, if necessary, to adapt and develop these rights in view of current circumstances, particularly technological and social changes.
Mr Solana, would you be prepared, at your next appearance before the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, to explain at length to the committee members the content of these documents discussed at the summit? I should like to ask Mr Patten and, through you, the President-in-Office to also attend and answer the same question.
Mr President, Commissioner, one of the most basic aims of the European Union' s stability and association agreement with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is to establish stability and peace in the area, and this, of course, presupposes developing and maintaining good neighbourly relations between the countries involved.
Moreover, this initiative is consistent with recommendations made by Parliament itself in its resolution of 18 November.
Well, I do not agree with them but I think if we do not base our information and our decisions on good scientific information, and if there is not an equal obligation on everyone to give it, then we will have bad decisions.
That is important, for at least three reasons.
At present dear colleagues, we can never be fully informed about the vast ecosystem that is the sea, nor about the multitude of factors which affect the stock of resources in this aqua system.
This does not happen all that often and it is gratifying, especially as the LEADER programmes have been key elements in the Union' s rural development policy.
1997 was a matter for the old Commission and, therefore, the new Commission does not think that it can accept liability.
Do we have any figures?
This initiative is being discussed within the Union, but with no hope of a decision in the near future.
This is true on their part because - whether we like it or not - they are asking us for direct aid and they are wondering what Europe wants from them at the end of the day?
This is an intolerable situation which must cease as a matter of urgency.
Adopting this report would have serious consequences for agriculture in the EU if concentrations of, for example, phosphorus and nitrogen could not exceed the background values for these substances in the aquatic environment and if a limit of zero were to be established for pesticides in the aquatic environment.
While, basically, I subscribe to the European Commission proposals, nonetheless there are some conditions which may lead to confusion.
Can I first thank Mr van Hulten for this report.
But is there not more to it than that?
I cannot shake off the impression that in terms of defence policy, NATO' s role is actually very much emphasised with regard to collective defence.
It should be of comfort to the Commissioner that these elections will take place in 25 days time, since after that he will probably not have to deal with this type of question again.
As for me, I can say, after having debated it in the College of Commissioners, that the Commission is prepared to present the necessary legislative measures, amendments and directives to Parliament and the Council, in order to equip ourselves with the greatest possible level of safety.
I hope that all political groups will support us in our request for a public hearing.
Mr President, the facts are well-known.
While others may have the biggest rockets, the EU has the deepest pockets.
This type of sectoral analysis pertains rather to the practice and competence of the Directorate General for Fisheries, under Commissioner Fischler.
Mr President, the decision relating to discharge for the 1997 financial year was postponed because the erstwhile Commission, to whom it was to be granted, had stepped down before the appointed time and was only continuing in office in a caretaker capacity.
Hurricane "Lothar" should prompt us not to abide solely by the principle of undertaking repairs once the damage is done - something which is discussed at a very superficial level here -, but to switch to the precautionary principle, under the terms of which potential perpetrators are brought to book too.
The Commission makes only a passing reference to economic and social cohesion, to solidarity between Member States and to the European Union' s regional policy.
A breakthrough in this regard may perhaps lead to changes in other areas, however.
And secondly: are we reducing the European car industry' s competitiveness by means of the present proposal?
This means that every Member State must guarantee the establishment of effective, adequate penal sanctions, which act as a deterrent against the offences covered by the draft framework decision.
They must therefore realise that such issues cannot be decided on the rationale of bargaining alone.
I would therefore call on the Commission to fulfil its monitoring duties directly itself and to do all it can to ensure that LEADER+ programmes run smoothly.
The regulation of phone tapping in the Council document was incomplete and therefore inadequate.
Apparently there are only five at the moment to rescue about 80 000 people from trees.
It is a very important question indeed which Jonas Sjöstedt and others have asked.
The peoples which do not participate and gradually grow more distant will leave the way open for an oligarchy that will take power and leave control in the hands of a few.
Both in the communication from the Commission and in the report by Mr Andersson, it is emphasised that it is the Member States which have responsibility for and, therefore, also determine the content of, social security arrangements.
The White Paper puts reform in its proper political context.
A characteristic example is Greece, which as an Objective 1 country was included as a whole in the LEADER Community initiatives, and where the average annual reduction in employment in the farming sector reached approximately 2.3%, while between 1994 and 1999 farming incomes decreased by 15.2%.
Journalists are sent to prison for simply speaking the truth, whilst soldiers who are supposedly fighting each other exchange smuggled goods in the bar in the evening.
The Strasbourg Assembly was the last chaired by Lord Plumb.
Not because our delegation, our rapporteur and the chairman Mr Gargani did not work exceptionally well - they worked very hard indeed - and not because I have any strong objection to Commissioner Reding' s attitude - I think that, given the framework she was operating in, her attitude was particularly positive - but because of the negative and unacceptable position adopted by the Council.
Secondly, we must also clarify our own auditing roles.
That is what we intend to do: the necessary measures and programmes are in place.
So that is the first priority, the competitiveness of regional economies.
I want, finally, to say that I had certain misgivings last week when we discussed the formation of the Austrian Government but, when it comes to discussing and criticising its policy on refugees, I have no misgivings.
I suspect that the question is focused on the issue of where the competence of the authority begins and ends and where the competence and authority of food safety agencies in Member States begin and end.
Mr President, some of us in Parliament will remember the successful film, "Cocoon", in which some elderly people drank a special kind of water that made them young again.
If we find that any Member of this House or their employees collaborated with the BBC in this farrago we will expose them to the opprobrium of this House.
Indeed, it is quite in keeping with the positions this House has always adopted.
A large section of the Union' s population has strongly condemned this policy for being dangerous and anti grass-roots.
It is my impression that this mission from the European Parliament was the final push which convinced our Cuban friends that the time had come to move forward on mechanisms of cooperation with the European Union.
Recommendation (A5-0008/2000) by Ms Cederschiöld, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market on the proposal for a Council decision on the approval, on behalf of the European Community, of the WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty (11221/1999 - COM(1998) 249 - C5 - 0222/1999 - 1998/0141 (AVC))
If we look at the private sector, however, we will find not only that this fabled 'financial stability' has been unsuccessful but that we are most probably sitting on a volcano ready to erupt at any moment.
A genuine flaw in the guidelines are specific guidelines for the orchestration of coordination between the ESF and employment strategy. The fact that this coordination is being put into effect for the first time during the 2000-2006 programme period implies that the Member States really do need "guidelines".
CULTURE 2000
They are particularly beneficial to the Member States, and I would particularly like to draw your attention to the emphasis the Commission has placed on the issues of sustainable development, job creation and, more particularly, on equal opportunities and transport issues.
This is actually in conflict with European values and certainly with the parliamentary values which are referred to so often in this Parliament.
After all, the knowledge that economic development alone does not help to combat unemployment substantiates the fact than an increase of at least 3% in gross domestic product is needed to create any additional jobs at all.
They are facing expulsion and have been fighting a battle of survival for dozens of years.
We hope that the Commission can reassure us that this was an oversight which is now being dealt with constructively.
And let me say in passing, it is even more astonishing that the Council allowed it to.
I must add, however, that cooperation between our action groups and similar groups in third countries went too far for the Member States.
Without presuming to lecture you - God forbid - or even advise you, may I just point out that, when it was my honour to be Minister for European Affairs in my own country, I saw the need to establish a direct dialogue with the people? Each week, when engaging in this dialogue in each region, I realised that there was a real need for the European Union to have a face.
But I will do what I can to see that Mrs Theato' s report receives more support.
Mr President, I would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on a report, which, on reading it, gives the impression of simply confirming and accepting the Council' s draft decision.
It is absolutely certain that all three left us with an ecological disaster.
May I quickly add something to the answer given just now by Mrs Wallström to Mr Martin?
Mr President, the Treaty of Amsterdam has set an important objective for the Union.
When it comes to safety my Group will always support any initiatives to improve transport safety.
Mr President, the oil tanker Erika, the ownership of which is veiled by accommodation addresses on Malta and probably in Italy and Greece and which was hired by Total-Fina for the transport of oil, foundered off the Breton coastline, with disastrous consequences.
First of all, this matter has been in the pipeline since 1993, so it has not really been sprung on any other commodity producers.
A number of obstacles remain, but I am convinced that, as the legislative work progresses, we shall achieve our common goal of creating a water policy we can be proud of.
Mr President, we have listened to the statements by the Council and the Commission and I would like to make the following observations.
That is also mentioned in the report.
The issue of universal service was mentioned by Mrs Isler Béguin, by Mr Miller, whom I thank for his personal message, and by many others.
The European Union must carry out this whole operation in collaboration with the third countries to which I have referred which, although geographically in Europe, are not members of the European Union.
The success of this strategy hinges on a broad and democratic base and we hope that we can count on your support.
What do the current EU Member States intend to do about this fair request submitted by candidate countries?
However, I could also regard them as a customer, and I believe we should enter into rather clear and timely discussion on the ways in which the social field, that is evolved structures, stifle competition.
The Members of Parliament from the Lutte Ouvrière Party shall not be voting in favour of these reports on European competition policy.
However, that is not the problem.
No transboundary effects have been detected and most of the weapons will have been used on the territory of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
The news received in recent weeks on the way in which modern technologies facilitate interceptions mean that greater attention must be paid to this issue: we would not want our reality to be even more harsh and troubled than the dark scenes depicted by Orwell.
Of course the first condition for uniform action is always to have uniform definitions and, as was emphasised, what we are basically trying to do is to ensure that the euro is protected even before it is physically introduced.
The role of liberalisation in modernising and improving postal services throughout the Union with the help of new technologies will be examined in order to identify potential benefits for the industry as a whole.
A legal basis translates into the ability to formulate strategies, to coordinate and to programme, all vital factors for making European Union tourism competitive with other markets.
These amendments can all be approved.
Mr President, Commissioner, there has been one ecological disaster after another and, unfortunately, they are all similar.
We need to associate ourselves with the American initiative.
And yet this phrase is nowhere to be seen.
I would just like to repeat what I said at the beginning.
It remains to be seen whether this will change with the new European Union Charter on Fundamental Rights, work on which has just begun.
This, ladies and gentlemen, could be the decade of Europe. Indeed, I would say that this must be the decade of Europe.
The debate is closed.
I can testify to this remarkable work.
Resources are also needed for promoting practical cooperation and human rights, strategic planning, the establishment of priorities and strengthening communications between the donor community and member states of the United Nations.
I will mention just a few: our ability to combine development policy with trade policy and to ensure synergies between aid and economic cooperation; our neutrality and defence of overall Community interests; the fact that we represent a critical mass and are able to do relatively large jobs compared to what individual Member States can normally do.
While I recognise that some progress has been made in areas like port state control and minimal crewing standards, we are still faced with what our late colleague Ken Stewart used to call 'ships of shame sailing in and out of our European Union waters: rust buckets badly crewed'.
Collective investment undertakings have for some time been the primary savings vehicle through which millions of ordinary citizens, without any specialist knowledge, have invested their life savings.
When the debate on the ability of politics to influence economics goes global, the establishment of this tax could become one of the symbols of the political desire to recapture the democratic areas seized by the international financial operators.
It would be a disaster if action were deliberately, or even inadvertently, taken which had the effect of damaging that.
Our answer is clear: it is not the Commission nor even the Council or the European Parliament, but the people of each Member State by democratic procedures.
Bluefin tuna is the world' s most expensive fish fetching up to EUR 90 000 per ton at the auctions in Tokyo and, of course, the indication of the importance of the Mediterranean tuna is that it accounts for 70 percent of global landings in the region of 30 000 tons.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would also like to remind the House that there is very little time available, and therefore that any measure - including those already cited by the Commission in its introductory report - which we adopt must have an immediate, timely effect.
Any other information will of course be analysed by the Prosecutor, who will in due course decide whether or not there is cause for action.
This is a Belgian government measure which flies in the face of the Schengen Treaty.
Like the rapporteur, we deplore the fact that it has been excluded from strand IIIA.
The report of the Commission presents an assessment of the current economic position of the European economy which it finds promising, especially in terms of the recent recovery of economic growth expected to lead to a reduction of unemployment to 8% by the year 2001.
This monitoring centre should draw up an annual report on developments in these policies and on their impact and interaction.
I do not want to enter into this type of discussion because I think that it might, to use a French expression, préjuger the Portuguese Presidency' s views in the course of the negotiations in which it is involved on the Statute for Members.
The aim is to ensure that the internal market in postal services functions smoothly in the interests of consumers and businesses throughout the European Union.
Yesterday it was impossible for myself and many MEPs to be here, because the 2.15 p.m. Air France flight, which normally brings us here, was cancelled, with no explanation from the airline, and we therefore arrived very late.
We are setting up a media plan and close contacts with the European Union Presidency and the European Parliament.
In my view, products of the mind are far more valuable than tangible products, namely, those that can be seen and touched.
With regard to the ambitious objectives and, above all, the Commission' s important step of adopting this broadening of the process of negotiation and integration, I would like - and my Group would like - more clarification in relation to the revision of Agenda 2000.
What he envisaged was what he called a small, practical secretariat.
I hope that next time, also if any other airline company is involved, things will run more smoothly.
Climate change, global resources, river quality and groundwater aquifer quality are major challenges which threaten our common future.
Madam President, this is an historic moment, as it is now, at last, quite clear to us all that the European Union has gradually developed into a community of values.
There are a number of things that undermine consumer confidence - lack of information is one.
Now it is freedom, security and justice, and I hope that the current governments of the left will heed the words of Commissioner Vitorino and resist the temptation to elevate security, important as it is, above the equally important needs of freedom and justice.
The overall strategy of the Commission is to direct fisheries activities towards both economically and environmentally sustainable levels through management of the scarce resource in such a manner as to prevent its exhaustion through over-exploitation and/or environmental degradation.
Still on the subject of Wednesday' s sitting, I have another proposal regarding the oral question on capital tax.
I thank the Minister for his response, but I would also like to point out that, statistically, there is now more violence in Kosovo than there was before the NATO bombing.
We should salute it - and I think we do.
Would sanctions not be appropriate, as the Commissioner stated, for the classification society?
It is we, our own people, who keep the war going over there.
Mr President, Mr Andersson' s report contains a lot that is of interest.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to remind you of the composition of our food chain and how important it is for this chain to provide us with safe, healthy food which is produced, as a matter of principle, without any questionable or risky interim or end products.
We agree that it may be granted and we call on the Commission to be extremely vigilant in ensuring, once the decision has been taken, that the amounts are set aside and paid as quickly as possible.
We insist that these violations of human rights are investigated.
What concrete measures have been discussed?
Fundamental changes will also be considered for the technical assistance offices.
Mr President, as one who has been concerned with Macedonia for eight years, I have to contradict Mr Dupuis.
In recent years, these have been amongst the programmes most eagerly accepted by the youngest and most dynamic citizens of the European Union.
This was demonstrated by the Americans who, after the Exxon Valdez disaster, within one year, adopted enormously rigorous and tough legislation, which threatens, as I said earlier, to divert ships unacceptable to American ports towards Europe.
The next item is the report (A5-0011/2000) by Mr Langen, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council decision adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the Community - Altener (C5-0333/1999 - 1997/0370(COD))
In this it said that in a few years' time we must have stopped dumping pollution and halted the increase of pollution and we must have reached a near zero level of toxic and dangerous substances.
Report (A5-0007/2000) by Mr Berger, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the posting of workers who are third-country nationals for the provision of cross-border services (COM(1999)0003 - C5-0095/1999 - 1999/0012(COD))
But for the internal market to work effectively and for the single European currency to be a success it is important that all regions within Europe, of which there are over 100, can economically compete within this very challenging environment.
This is serious, since it holds up the whole process of reconstruction in Kosovo.
Secondly, when dismissals prove to be inevitable, the utmost must be done to reinforce the employability of those concerned.
Will you please therefore undertake, before the next plenary in February, to write and tell me where I can find this information on behalf of the public, immediately the Council has passed legislation, rather than waiting for it to come out weeks later on a press release list.
Furthermore, the cloud of debt remains an obstacle to real development.
I am extremely grateful for the work that Mrs Berger has put into these proposals which are politically sensitive and which constitute a legislative challenge.
Lastly, Mr Balfe has complained that there are, in his opinion, too many limits in the whole proposal the Commission has put forward.
Today the programme is in place and therefore I believe we have achieved something important, that distinguishing mark of the European Union called the URBAN programme.
In 1998, it was agreed that the European Commission should publish an annual report which highlights any improvements.
It is your job to tidy up the mess left by national governments. These may well have grand visions when it comes to competition policy, but their capacity to wreak havoc seems boundless.
Consequently, I have tabled some amendments to Mr Koch' s intrinsically excellent report, which have been adopted by our committee.
How do you think a system like that would affect people' s confidence in ourselves as politicians?
Nothing could be further from the truth!
(The President cut the speaker off)
We must also ask if there is not a need for fiscal justice.
There is one thing I would ask though: I believe we must prevent the debate on extending the legal basis for OLAF from leading to the misconception that OLAF does not now have enough authority.
The experiences in countries where liberalisation is more advanced such as Sweden, Finland and the Netherlands, prove that when liberalisation takes place in an orderly way, the quality of service may be raised as a result of higher-quality service requirements imposed by the national regulations and their follow-up.
The Commission?
We will be looking at this closely when we come to the annual programmes of proposed legislation.
We need to make it evident which problems we are solving and which we have not yet solved.
This week we heard the first political cry of the new-born Europe.
We live in a world of rules and regulations: let us regulate the Internet too and give our fellow citizens rules and hope for the future.
We know full well that what you are doing, Commissioner, and that is, limiting yourself to giving us the hypothetical and remote possibility of benefiting from the Structural Funds of the new Objective 2 or from the provisional Objectives 2 or 5b.
We therefore welcome Commissioner Wallström' s brief visit, for it can contribute to this awareness.
Madam President, we are debating an extremely serious issue.
We propose to complement those provisions by defining the rights and obligations for officials to report suspected wrong-doing through internal channels but not exclusively within the same hierarchical line.
Is not the Council of the opinion that the Court of Auditors should be given more resources in order to investigate or review similar development measures where environmental conflicts arise?
The newspaper reports were misleading.
On the market, the balance of power between supply and demand are generally to the detriment of the weakest parties, consumers and workers.
Mr President, in the last couple of days we have heard fine words about the need for greater coherence, coordination and effectiveness in the external aid programmes of the Community and of the Member States.
It is our fundamental values which are at stake here. As the democratically elected representatives of the European people, we have no choice.
Secondly, in respect to the environmental data, the original proposal speaks only of biological and economic information.
As you said, Commissioner, we must ensure that there is compensation for the forced cessation in activity and that appeals can be made to FIFG for investments that have been totally wiped out.
Indeed the report does not mention the time limit for this quota to be achieved.
This too is characteristic of American society, which hears little about it.
On the other hand, we can go a long way using the existing tools.
One gets the impression in fact that they both think that the Petersberg tasks are ideally suited for inclusion in the EU defence policy in due course.
A lack of progress in the final status negotiations should not jeopardise implementation of the three above-mentioned interim agreements.
It would be a serious matter if every non-European company were to learn to use Europe as a bus where you do not have to pay for the ticket, you do not have to pay for cooperation, you benefit from using the facility and you leave without being accountable to anyone.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
I would also like to see the enrichment of the training effort undertaken both by current Member States and by the Union generally to ensure that as new officials come in to the Commission and officials and administrators in the Member States have to deal with the realities, the complex realities of membership of the Union and the single market, it will be difficult to see the joins.
It is easy to forget that it will be possible to exchange the old currencies for twenty years after the new currency has been introduced.
The lessons we have learned under these actions must be built on.
Dependence on imported energy affects worst of all many Eastern European countries, whose economic structure is still suffering from the dependence created in the times of the Soviet Union on Russian energy.
This is a world-wide activity which will focus upon violence against women and female poverty throughout the world.
Here lies the danger of female arrogance in politics. Because women have to deal with different realities.
During the recent trip by the President of the European Parliament to the Middle East, which you mentioned, the various conflicting parties were in agreement about asking for a more active presence from the European Union in the on-going peace process in the region.
The considered view of this Parliament in the consultation period over the next four to five weeks will for obvious reasons be of great significance.
The challenge of creating an area of justice and home affairs, of dealing with asylum and immigration and crime, is very political.
We rationalise instruments and introduce a new system of rolling programming, allowing the Community and the beneficiary country to regularly adjust their cooperation programme.
Second Part
We have a lot of proud talk about 60 000 troops being prepared in 60 days to be available for a whole year, but we currently have crises in Europe and on the borders of Europe and elsewhere which this Union is failing abjectly to deal with.
In spite of the fact that this Community initiative is aimed at rural development, it does not address the issues of agriculture and agricultural production in a consistent way, and this is unacceptable.
We also plan to establish direct contacts in universities, schools and factories, to meet the people, answer their questions and listen to them. In this way we will play our part, as will you, in making the necessary effort and meeting the urgent obligation to reduce the democratic deficit and the remoteness of our citizens from what we do.
In committee we are not in favour of reducing the number to 50.
We will make the Community institutions aware of what we are able to do, and what is possible in general, as regards coordination, not just at political level but also as regards what the Commission itself can achieve in terms of its scope for managing the accession process.
Secondly, partnership, a subject which a number of you stressed, the role of local and regional authorities, the private sector, both sides of industry, associations and local community action groups.
The proposed system will improve the protection of competition, primarily because it will allow the Commission to concentrate its action on the most serious restrictions, also because it will involve national and competition authorities to a greater degree in stamping out infringements, and lastly in that it will allow victims of infringements to have direct recourse to national judges, whose mission is to protect the rights of individuals.
This situation really cannot continue and we must therefore protest most strongly.
Mr President, the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters that we are examining today contains the minimum requirements for efficient and rapid cooperation between the various judicial or investigative bodies concerned.
This Military Committee, as you can imagine, will have various duties.
The Council ought to have given Parliament the stipulated three-month period within which to consider, too, the last document produced on this matter, but we are all aware of how urgent it is to have these measures put safely in place.
Within the authority I envisage much stronger scientific and other support for the independent scientists.
Mr President, money does not smell, as the Romans would say.
We have to be aware that these contradictions exist and that we need to minimise them. The underlying reason for presenting this resolution is that the objective of minimising these contradictions is a fair and wise one.
Women belong to different social classes.
Since 1996, Parliament has been calling for a joint fund to be created for cooperation with third countries in order to resolve difficulties.
Should we not be discussing this issue?
Can it also undertake to rule out any measures providing financing for research of this type during the negotiations in progress with the Member States on the plans and programmes for the new 2000-2006 period?
The Commission is paying particular attention to legal certainty for SMEs.
Recommendation for second reading (A5-0006/2000), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council Directive on end-of-life vehicles (8095/1/1999 - C5-0180/1999 - 1997/0194(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mr Florenz)
Europe must be able to provide the military capacity to act in times of crisis. I must repeat that the European Union will not be using this military capacity to make war but to bring peace.
That will form part of the work that we will have to do and I sure that all of you today will want to engage in that process.
He or she already pays enough in taxes for this vehicle, which is a bottomless pit in financial terms.
Consequently, we must support an amendment which at least permits exceptions in the case of particularly economical cars.
As is so often the case, it merely provides yet another massive bureaucratic structure to control a problem, which will only serve to create more jobs for officials, and cost the motor industries and consumers a great deal of money.
These are the areas in which changes will be made.
Parliament is not taking the initiative and supporting a Tobin type tax just to annoy the Commission.
With regard to the discussion concerning the deadline, I want to say that the final date for beginning to implement LIFE - 31 March 2000, as set in the common position - must now be moved forward.
We think it is wrong to talk about the Commission' s liability as an institution.
National governments provide subsidies and promise that this is the last time, but then it happens again.
These are two areas of action which I invite the Commissioner to set up and in which I would ask him to involve us.
Europe was born out of a desire for peace, freedom and tolerance.
In my report I have tried to reduce excessive administrative expenditure and to build greater openness and flexibility into the system of development partnerships.
That will develop very quickly and present the various undertakings in our society with new challenges; we will have to adapt very flexibly and rapidly to these challenges.
The debate is closed.
In my opinion, this directive is unacceptable for this reason.
And in a democracy, Parliament should be able to challenge the content.
It is more a question of nine minutes, perhaps nine hours if it is difficult, locked away together in a room to reach a solution on these subjects, not nine months.
Not a single piece of information, nor a single consultation, has been addressed to Parliament during this process; neither on the association of the United Kingdom, nor on the incorporation of Greece, nor on the negotiations with Norway and Iceland.
Including Jörg Haider' s party in a coalition government makes the presence of the extreme right an everyday fact of life in Europe, and sets an extremely dangerous precedent which may generate a serious aftermath in other Union Member States or in candidate countries.
Amendment No 8 because the proposed, general reference to assets 'covered by this directive' , instead of the more precise reference to assets 'mentioned in Article 19 of this Directive' , hinders implementation.
It is therefore vital for the EU and its Member States to intervene in a way which will enable us to provide this country and its people with rapid and exceptional help.
Amendment No 19 is also unacceptable, given my thoughts on Amendment No 10.
The Tibet Intergroup, therefore, gravely concerned about the continuing human rights abuses in Tibet and supporting the Dalai Lama?s proposal for dialogue with the Chinese Government to resolve the situation in Tibet, calls on the Commission to appoint a Special Envoy for Tibet to address the concerns of the European Union and to help bring the Tibetan and Chinese authorities together for dialogue.
The efforts made in order to drive up the GDP per capita in Objective 1 regions do not always result in such an increase, not really a satisfying result over a period during which, certainly over the past couple of years, there has been economic growth.
Last but not least, we need a long memory, for the issue of legislation will crop up on the agenda more frequently in the near future.
Regarding the informal economy you mention in your report, I am well aware that the analysis and production of statistics on this subject are dependent on the reliability of data and, as Mr Cocilovo mentioned, there is clearly a problem with the reliability of this data.
I want the Assembly to stop being just a talk-shop and become a work-shop for the betterment of all the people in developing countries.
By entrepreneurship I do not simply mean the ownership of business, but creating will.
In the end it is also a decisive factor of their success, as no collectivity can survive and prosper without trust, dialogue, partnership and solidarity between its different components.
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A4-0014/2000), on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council Regulation on a financial instrument for the environment (LIFE) (Rapporteur: Mrs Lienemann).
I would like to make it clear that it is not just a question of finance or aid to the different social operators, but rather also of selecting those projects which are aimed at employment, or to put it another way, projects which will tend to favour the creation and promotion of jobs.
As all colleagues will know - and many of you have approached me over the last six months - all exhibitions and such like are filtered first of all through the Comart committee of Parliament.
Some speakers have referred to the social importance of the postman. Let me add to that, the importance of the post offices.
Do you not think that the agenda of the IGC should include the question of European security and defence policy in order to supplement the treaties, if it appeared that, as the texts of the treaties stand at the moment, they do not allow for a real defence policy to be established?
It is because the key emphasis on the enterprise policy will be how to help to create new enterprises; how to make it easier for young people and women to create their own enterprises.
Why not?
In the 1998 Court of Auditors report an exchange rate miscalculation in relation to Italian wine cost the taxpayers of Europe GBP 8 to 10 million.
We cannot, therefore, adopt the proposed Amendment for this reason.
If the opportunity is created to apply for service provision cards for one or more, or all, Member States, the procedure would be more flexible still.
Some members of the Committee, however, supported Mrs Stenzel' s proposal and wordings.
There are companies at European level which employ thousands of workers, sometimes hundreds of thousands of workers throughout the world and yet fewer than 2% of the directors and managers are women.
This is a perfect example of the sort of work we do not want to see.
This is an important aspect of this initiative.
In cooperation with Europe, the international community rebuilt the hospital there too, but it is located in the northern part of the city, thus prohibiting access to Albanian Kosovars.
Is it correct and proper that the department which owns the company is also the authority which issues the licence, and also the authority which basically takes the money from the EU and gives it to a company that it owns 100%?
I would especially draw your attention to Amendment No 45, in which a choice is made in favour of laying the cost of disassembly and recycling at the door of the manufacturer, for new cars at any rate.
However, I also think that we in the EU should be making a constructive contribution.
Furthermore, this view was accepted in the Commission' s proposals on a parallel procedure concerning the liquidation of businesses.
First and foremost, we need to compete in terms of quality.
Personally, I at least am totally in favour of the guidelines.
Europe is continuing to expel nationals arriving from countries regarded as dangerous by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Yet some applicant countries in central and eastern Europe are taking in gypsy refugees expelled en masse from Belgium.
But these days, we are witnessing the exact reverse before our very eyes.
Also, Amendments Nos 4 and 5 to the new Article 2a must be approved as these will ensure that genetically modified additives are clearly identified as such, thus allowing users to make fully informed decisions.
For the safety of the euro is not just a matter of the stability and external value of the currency but, in fact, also of protecting the euro against counterfeiting.
As the present crisis involving Austria has demonstrated, the Union has the right to protect itself.
Apparently, according to my information, the Fisheries Directorate-General sent a note last January to the Trade Directorate-General which is still on the preparatory work.
I should be very grateful, Mrs Schroedter, if you would actually include this proposed amendment in the part relating to subsidiarity in your positive deliberations.
Will the Commission present new initiatives in order to see whether, through the constant efforts of the Commission and Parliament, we can gradually convince the Council to do something on this issue?
In any event, the outcome is in your hands.
Mr President, the reform of the Community judicial system has become an essential requirement if, in the future, we intend justice to be done within reasonable time scales, and if, in the future, the European Union wishes to have a judicial system which is equal to the political project which we have embarked upon.
We are in the process of formulating new policy guidelines and we need to identify priority areas for Community action.
They were not unique to 1997 and two strands seem to run through them.
Clearly, they have no role to play in your strategy.
Otherwise, the challenge really would be lost, not just for the present but also for many years to come.
Cohesion policy needs to be strengthened further because a Europe which totally disregards the standard of living in its regions can neither be reliable or viable.
In this respect, I fully support the amendments proposed by Mrs Lienemann to develop a reasonable approach using quality standards so that we can eventually say that, when people use water, they are not consuming it but maintaining present stocks.
This represents the most important step forward in the stabilisation and association process of the western Balkans region initiated by the Commission in May 1999.
I am referring to Recommendations 1 and 2.
So he delivers money too, and sometimes even medicines, thus making it possible for isolated elderly people to be supported in living at home.
Mozambique is a wonderful example but now likely to suffer enormous hardship as a result of what they have endured.
The great majority of the paper's proposals are closely akin to those put by Mr van Hulten and that paper includes - I say to him and to Mr Staes - a very explicit timetable of actions to be undertaken in pursuit of reform.
I said that there was no consistency between the decisions taken by the Council and the policies actually carried out.
What I would like to focus on very briefly are one or two themes which ran through our debate.
If these amendments are adopted, I think that we shall cause Parliament seriously to lose credibility on environmental issues.
My question to the Commissioner is this: what is to be done?
Furthermore, the idea of obtaining resources to apply them to the more economically needy countries presents such complexity, when we consider their application in practice, that it appears simply impossible.
Our Group is in favour of adopting this report.
A number of scientific hypotheses maintain that scrapie developed into BSE in cows and therefore caused the BSE epidemic.
We have heard some very thorough observations which both concern the philosophy of economic policy and are important for the institutional order.
In my own country, Italy, there are some 200 000 postal workers who cost the state approximately ITL 50 million a year per capita, or EUR 25 000, that is, a total cost of around EUR 5 million.
My last question to Mr Solana is this: what concrete preparations are being made for conflict prevention of this kind?
We must start by going beyond man, who is not the master of the universe, to the source of all genuine rights and civilised values, without which the eternal claim to rights always ends in tyranny and bloodshed.
Of course I would add that I continue to support this committee' s amendments, which they adopted unanimously.
This question has now entered a different dimension, a dimension in which USD 1 500 billion roam the world twenty-four hours a day looking for attractive investments, no more than 3% of which have anything to do with the real economy.
It is the applicants themselves who are to decide whether they want to knock on the door.
We will carefully study the planned White Papers and will participate constructively in the work begun or promised.
In March, the Second World Water Forum will be held in The Hague.
This is the policy which the Commission has defended and will continue to defend in Lisbon.
Fifthly, the protection of groundwater status and measures against persistent pollution of the groundwater should be transparent and clear.
It is, however, very much in doubt whether Brussels can make available the billions of dollars which the Israeli and Syrian authorities require from their peace patron, the United States, not to mention the heavy, equally costly, security guarantees in case of an Israeli withdrawal from the Golan.
On the other hand, the price Macedonia has been paying for the war in neighbouring Kosovo is very high, both in terms of logistic availability of NATO forces and in terms of reduced exports to Northern Europe.
Mr Poettering is right - when he is right you have to tell him so.
We must choose those which are moderate, which have breadth of vision and which have a perception of peace and stability in the area.
(FR) The only reason we voted for the PSE-Verts/ALE-GUE/NGL compromise motion for a resolution is because this resolution allowed us to condemn the decision by the Goodyear-Dunlop management to close its factory in Italy.
We are not making the connection so that the citizens can actually do something concretely either at home or in their offices or in industry to support action against global climate change.
In addition, I should like to make a number of comments:
These are the values which we ask of others who seek to join us.
Having said this, I still have concerns about the proposed decentralisation.
They are still in training, as it were.
This means that approving the proposal put forward by the Council and by the Commission would represent an unacceptable reversal of this trend.
There is also the question which was referred to by Mr Salafranca, who I am sorry is unable to be with us at the end of this brief but useful debate.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Verheugen, the regulation on accession aid is not exactly an advertisement for coherent work on the part of the Commission.
It is necessary to have a clear division of responsibility among all levels of authority and to be partners, rather than competitors when it comes to policy.
Mr President, everyone who has travelled here by car, train or aeroplane, has been able to see the extent of the damage, particularly in France, caused by hurricanes of a completely unprecedented violence which struck Europe at the end of last month.
In conclusion, Mr President, Parliament must introduce a principle of democracy: we must implement reforms which allow Parliament to grow and expand its powers, not go into reverse.
I should like to ask the Commissioner expressly to confirm that the scheme has not been approved by the Commission.
Both parties were once part of the government.
I thank the President-in-Office for the concerns and certainties he has expressed about the progress of the work.
In the coming months, ladies and gentlemen of the House, the Commission will therefore be working in close cooperation, on good terms, with your two representatives, Professor Tsatsos and Mr Elmar Brok, in order to reconcile our points of view, if need be.
As we sit here, hundreds of thousands of people are in enormous peril from the floods in Mozambique.
The existing postal companies no longer fall under democratic control and room is being made for competitors.
We must also now explain what we are doing together and what we want to do together in the future, particularly with the countries which will be joining us.
There is more going on in Cambodia: prisoners are being tortured, the army and police are involved in the trade in women and children, and people are held on remand to an excessive degree.
Mr President, Commissioner, the adoption of the WIPO agreements was a very positive step in the direction of the global information society.
If we continue down this path, and this is the ideology, and declare the financial markets to be sacrosanct and even claim that any intervention in the workings of these markets is contrary to progress and contrary to the growth of the economy, then we will quite certainly be on the wrong tack and that could take on quite dangerous proportions.
What is the role of the scientific committees?
We will obviously do this and will also forward a report to you on it.
We are still in the process of preparing a text, and the dialogue with the relevant parties will continue up until the last moment.
This is already an intolerable withdrawal of the public service.
We believe that poor old Europe can only speak with one voice to say nothing or, and this is possibly more serious, that it can only resolve its diplomatic contradictions by simply tagging along with American politics.
It is therefore with great satisfaction that we welcome the proposal that is now being made for a stabilisation and association agreement with Macedonia, and we thank Mr Swoboda for a very good report.
There, it is mainstreaming which applies.
I will be happy to come back to Parliament to respond to and clarify the problems which may conceivably occur if a result is not reached, or to congratulate all of you if this result is achieved.
My request to the Commission is that it should make sure that the organisations and sections of the population which get involved really are accepted.
You mentioned the Commission being able to withhold grants and subsidies from countries who are acting in the way that France is acting.
In this respect I believe - and some speakers here have also commented on this - that the adoption of the new convention, which succeeds the Lomé Convention, is an important instrument of renewal, and represents a new approach to a partnership with such an important group of countries from the south at a time of considerable instability in the international negotiating process, as demonstrated by the first negotiating round in Seattle.
The second area of incoherence is aid to authoritarian regimes.
I would insist on changing our procedures and on the fact that the Council should be present during the topical debate, so that we can enter into direct consultation with the Council.
Most companies hate competition.
extension of QMV in areas where it will benefit the UK and Europe (but not Treaty change, defence matters, border controls or taxation), and extension of codecision wherever QMV is extended
Limiting discharges of hazardous substances into our waters must be one of the most important objectives.
We want a Europe for the people and not a Europe of paper-pushers!
In this light, I am pleased that Mr Liikanen is present and we do not only have to hold this discussion, where the interests of employees are concerned, with Mrs Diamantopoulou but we can involve the Commissioners who are active in other fields.
As regards the international aspect of competition policy, I can confirm, Mr Rapkay, that the Commission is willing to provide Parliament with a report on this subject, to which Mrs Randzio-Plath has also drawn our attention. We have very satisfactory bilateral relations with the relevant American, Canadian and Japanese authorities as regards competition policy, and we are working to ensure that competition is treated as a separate topic within the World Trade Organisation.
As this issue will be returning to this House at some stage, I must highlight the working method used between the Commission and this Parliament.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
This is not the way to create the conditions for the nations of Europe to live together in harmony and to be able to cooperate to achieve a shared future.
That is my conclusion today.
There are, therefore, serious grounds, over and above justice between the sexes, for distributing public offices and political and economic power fairly and evenly between men and women.
And we will propose the establishment of an interinstitutional Disciplinary Board - something else on which we will need the support and understanding of Parliament.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 p.m.
An ambitious and well-balanced European policy in the field of water is an important component of guaranteed sustainable development for Europe.
This is a necessary change and should be accompanied by a commitment at European level to instigate and fund research into developing an effective vaccine.
It is precisely this which, in a sense, is hindering the important process of developing codecision within the legislative programme.
It is also a matter of conviction.
Moreover, it will only be possible to give the Commission responsibility for the tasks it takes on according to the actual powers it will be accorded.
(Applause)
Have you stopped to ask what kind of effect the debate we are having here and the statement delivered by the Council Presidency last weekend are having in Austria itself?
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, in my view, this strategy paper has two clear weaknesses.
No, there must be no undermining of OLAF' s authority, and neither do I think this was the rapporteur' s intention.
It contravenes Article 3 of the Geneva Convention of 1949 and is a flagrant violation of the freedom of the press.
In a nutshell, I would like to reiterate the Commission' s conclusion here: it supports the draft recommendation and hopes that it will be of key importance to anyone with an interest in intellectual property.
It is not very easy in coastal areas anywhere in the Union to defend the European Union in the whole area of fisheries, but I have been defending them on the grounds that decisions are made on properly based scientific knowledge.
In principle, I believe that in many cases where transport is concerned we should be working towards increased flexibility and country-specific rules.
But the fact that we now fear abuse of power and nepotism indicates that, unfortunately, democracy is not fully functioning yet.
It is important not only for the environment but also for public health.
This makes the large number of amendments and far too long a wish list of possible tasks all the more astonishing.
How strongly is the single market established at the moment?
We could, as the Commission has proposed, accept these overlong deadlines which the Commission and the Council have extended even further. Yet if we do, we will not only have a credibility problem with the general public, but these efforts will be postponed until tomorrow and then tomorrow they will be deferred again.
The joint debate is closed.
The view that ethnicity is the defining factor of a nation and the claim that one ethnic group has superiority over others, as is written here, revives old ghosts of the century which we have just left behind, which some historians have described as the century of horrors; horrors which the unacceptable philosophy behind Mr Haider' s manifesto has stirred up once again, to our amazement.
We shall nevertheless continue to devote all our attention to this problem because the entire credibility of the authorities and of the organisations representing Albanians in the region also depends on the ability of these organisations to prove themselves capable of implementing measures which will guarantee the region' s multi-ethnic nature.
The Council is minded to give priority to this area, within the Transport Council, and we intend to follow this up as quickly as possible.
People have the gall to say they benefit from the Lomé Convention, but even looking at trading relations alone, the Lomé Convention has done nothing to protect those countries; their already feeble share in trade with Europe has been halved.
These opinions add substance to my question addressed to Mr Solana.
We need from the Commission material we can use to help us scrutinise spending.
In view of the fact that the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament do not permit us to table our own resolution condemning Haider' s party, as well as all the parties throughout Europe which disseminate racist slander and which are xenophobic and hostile to immigrant workers, we voted in favour of the compromise resolution. We did so even though we did not agree with some of its recitals or terms, in order to show our solidarity with all those in Austria itself who are opposing the Austrian extreme right and its demagoguery.
The present CAP, however, is worse than its predecessor and it also starts from a worse basis, granted that the 1992 CAP review and the GATT agreement in 1995 have created serious problems and impasses for the agricultural economy.
That said, I would like to congratulate the high representative on the progress that has been made so far.
Will it discuss the matter?
In this context, activity-based management is the key to ensuring coherence between objectives, actions and resources.
This should be exercised first and foremost in the Member States.
The time has come to discuss, and then establish, a body for emergency civil protection in Europe.
What can the European Union do, without interfering in internal affairs in Cyprus, to promote a fair and viable solution to this drastic problem in a country which has been associated with the European Community for nearly 30 years and which is due to join the Union within the next few years?
We now have a number of months to have the necessary debate on the Commission's ideas on the White Paper on the establishment of a European food authority.
And so we are going to have to be content, albeit very grudgingly, with the fact that we have at least managed to achieve something in terms of content.
Amendments Nos 49, 50 and 51, which share the same basis, are not acceptable because they make substantial changes to the consistent approach of the Commission regarding the regulations of third party delegation, and do not offer sufficient security to the competent authorities and investors.
However, criticism has been voiced within my group over the timing of the preparatory work of the committee.
As regards the subject of flexibility, we propose development partnerships and cooperation both at the geographical level where different kinds of groups would cooperate in a specific geographical area to combat discrimination in the workplace, and at the thematic level where, for example, cooperation could take place in a specific economic sector.
It represents a step towards the area of freedom, security and, particularly, justice to which we all aspire.
Finally, I welcome the Commission's statement and the fact that this says for the first time that the EU is prepared unilaterally to introduce measures to make it easier for developing countries to gain access to our markets.
We were talking a short while ago in this House about debates involving our citizens, about public debates.
That does not prevent these Member States from taking public-order measures within the framework of the proposed duty of notification.
The plight of small businesses is also addressed by numerous amendments from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and also the amendments in question from our group to Article 5 concerning costs.
Possible future Member States ought to be involved in, and have an influence upon, the shaping of the EU of the future.
Individuals and governments should be judged by what they do rather than by what they say.
However, I must again congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Gallagher.
We here in Parliament are waiting for the Commission to give the committee a more detailed explanation of the issue as soon as possible.
That would be good internationalism as opposed to the bad internationalism, as practised with the free exchange areas and other false friends of the OECD.
You too, in your role, Commissioner Bolkestein, have a very great responsibility for the future of the elderly and of pensioners, a future that I hope will improve once we have finalised this directive, by which I mean very soon, as has been proposed by Mrs Villiers and Mrs Kauppi.
Is this the text which you will be submitting, or an amendment to the original version?
It very much remains to be seen whether these New Lands will be safe in terms of public health.
I would point out in this regard that the OSPAR Convention does not in any way alter existing Community legislation concerning nitrates from the agricultural sector.
The Fifteen need to start work right now, with all the members of the United Nations; we need, at long last, to issue a firm condemnation and then use that as a basis to gain a negotiating position.
No, we should continue to make progress by working discreetly to support the special representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations with his remit.
I want to address this issue directly because we in Europe are criticised unfairly for not taking human rights there sufficiently seriously.
The public must have a right to clean water.
. (DA) The European project began as a partnership between States.
Thank you, Mr President and thank you President-in-Office of the Council.
The subject needs to be discussed without prejudice.
Relating to Friday: President.
The fact that the Council' s proposal rides roughshod over the principle of proportionality is also hard to deal with for my Group.
We have been awaiting a common communication from the Commission on the precautionary principle for a very long time now and it was anything but clear in the past as to whether the Commission speaks with one voice.
Essentially - and with legal change - the Commission will systematically move away from the current centralised system of prior approval of each financial transaction by the Financial Controller and instead strengthen the internal control systems within spending departments so that Directors-General are better equipped to take responsibility for decisions with an impact on the European Union budget.
One special aspect of multilateral cooperation with the ACP states is regional cooperation and integration.
It is a very clear answer, but it is also an answer, may I point out, which puts Danish organisations, the Danish Government and the Danish Parliament in a very, very difficult situation politically, for it is a well-known fact that there are a number of basic problems associated with the relationship between the Danish model, which is based quite obviously upon collective agreements, and the Continental model, which presupposes legislation.
Just last week it was one of the issues that brought about a vote of no-confidence and the resignation of the First Secretary of the National Assembly of Wales.
I believe that, quite apart from the nature of the issue concerned, the EU' s directives should not treat small companies within the Union unfairly.
This is why it is essential to approve Amendment No 2 to Recital 4 which avoids the risks of the monopoly which would arise if companies which were the first to be authorised to place an additive on the market were to remain the only ones able to continue marketing it during the re-evaluation procedure.
That is the only form of exemption which is acceptable.
Our answer to this crucial question is no.
Nevertheless, these same institutions showed no reluctance to accept Turkey as a candidate for membership of the European Union, despite its well-known human rights violations.
It seems to me that the landmine issue encapsulates so many of the organisational, procedural, financial management and operational difficulties which have afflicted the Commission and the Union.
These should indeed be excluded from the directive. Secondly, the controversial question as to who bears the responsibility for taking back cars.
This is why I would like to ask the High Representative, Mr Solana, to what extent Prague, Warsaw and Budapest are, or will be, involved in European military crisis management plans.
Mr President, Commissioner, reading the leaflets which have been distributed in recent weeks, one would think that we were talking about the ultimate environmental catastrophe or the death of the car industry in Europe.
Can I first of all emphasise how sorry my colleague, Mr Nielson, was that he could not be here but the honourable Members who are concerned about these development questions will know how important his mission is, trying to ensure that our agreement with South Africa survives.
There is no reason whatsoever why representatives directly elected by citizens should be involved in talks at a lower level than the Commission.
I believe that access to clean drinking water without charge is a basic human right in the developed as well as the developing world.
Like the honourable Member, the Commission welcomes the decision taken by the Heads of State and Government to start the process of drawing up a European Charter of Fundamental Rights. In the conclusions of the Cologne European Council the Heads of State and Government even established the broad outlines of the Charter' s content.
We must put a stop to this trend.
I urge the Council and the Council Presidency to continue to protect the fundamental values of the Union.
The second involves serious managerial shortcomings in the Commission, in particular in relation to coordination across departments and management of external contracts.
We have tried to drive this proposal through.
We are extremely hopeful that, along the lines set out by the rapporteur, Mr Swoboda, this agreement can represent an example to be rapidly extended to the other countries, especially Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Montenegro and Kosovo and, as soon as possible, Serbia.
This directive is a contribution to this.
That cost would inevitably be passed on to the price and hence to the buyers of new cars.
The Union' s commitment to establishing an area of freedom, security and justice was confirmed at Tampere.
I feel positive about the movement which is very gradually taking place in the dossier.
I would like to say, Mr Ortuondo Larrea, that in its judgement of 5 October 1999, the European Court of Justice ruled that this transfer, which was approved, was in accordance with the principles laid down in Council Regulation 37/60/92 and, specifically, with its Article 9(1), which stipulates that Member States may exchange all or part of the fishing rights that they have been allocated.
Poverty has been the common denominator of all the debates in the Joint Assembly and its eradication is the priority for the European Union' s development policy.
Madam President, I absolutely agree with the rapporteur' s analysis and I would also like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Culture, Mr Gargani, for his praiseworthy work in a mediation process that was also, considerably difficult.
Mr President, we take note that the excuse-making, reticent Presidency, which, in recent months, has prevented us from holding a debate such as the one we have been able to hold today, has come to an end.
(Parliament gave its assent)
I want the Commission to recognise that this is a necessary social service.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not always proud of the fuss that goes on here in Parliament, but the URBAN programme is one of the best examples of our work: it was created following an initiative in Parliament.
With regard to the installation of satellite fishing vessel monitoring systems, we feel that it is important for them to be installed on as many vessels as possible, although small vessels should not be compelled to carry them, of course, as investment and running costs would be disproportionately high compared to the value of the catches they make, and also in view of the fact that, in any case, satellite fishing vessel monitoring systems are not suitable or efficient for coastal fishing vessels.
For example, in recent years Italy has had problems in utilising the Structural Funds, mainly because of excessive bureaucracy, insufficient information and a lack of involvement of economic and social operators at local level.
Now Mr Titley referred to conflict prevention in the broadest sense and asked what intellectual contribution we were going to make to this debate.
Mr President, Commissioner, the war in Kosovo has knocked everything off balance.
EQUAL should live up to its name, and this is my firm intention.
I think it is exceptionally difficult for us to specialise in aid programmes for personal transport.
We stand ready to assist in this assessment if there is a joint request from Hungary and Romania and if access to the sites for nationals of both countries can be guaranteed. That is obviously crucial.
Thank you very much Commissioner.
We therefore think it only right that the Commission should have the task of tabling proposals entailing the further development of the already existing legal framework.
(FR) A few days after the demonstrations in Seattle, the ministers of the European Union imposed an agreement compatible with the rules of the WTO on the ACP, i.e. their former colonies.
Article 177 specifies these objectives as "sustainable economic and social development of the developing countries, and more particularly the most disadvantaged among them" , the "smooth and gradual integration of the developing countries into the world economy and the campaign against poverty in the developing countries" .
I would like to congratulate Lousewies van der Laan.
That means closing any significant gap between obligations and operational resources either by reducing activities or by increasing means or by a combination of both.
Then there are differences between the national legal requirements of the individual Member States, together with protracted or even unfulfilled requests for mutual assistance in law enforcement.
The jurisprudence of the Court appears to be quite clear in relation to this.
We are waiting to see what the next move will be.
Macedonia did not go through a war.
In my view, it is the task of the European Union to employ all instruments, including this one, so as to contribute towards resolving the conflict on the island by political means.
Now you can go from Vitoria to Copenhagen in 2 or 3 hours by plane.
It is the western world itself which is partly to blame.
Our citizens cannot accept that the European Union takes decisions in a way that is, at least on the face of it, bureaucratic.
The authority of this House could play an important part if we were to have a major debate on the Angolan situation and also on the whole of southern Africa.
Jörg Haider' s rise to power, with the inauguration of a conservative right-wing and FPÖ coalition government, is a sign of the terrible revival in Europe of a monster to which liberalism has given birth.
The budget allocated to LEADER + for a period of seven years is half that allocated to LEADER II for a period of six years.
If there is a desire to make the EU more democratic, the whole construction of EMU must be reconsidered.
Unfortunately, we can expect there to be repeat performances of this kind of major disaster in the future.
The present directive has three aims. First of all, we want to stop heavy metals from being used in the manufacture of new cars.
That concludes the debate.
However, as chairman of a committee which looks as though it will be concerning itself almost entirely with food over the next three years, I have to ask: if Europe has the safest food control system, as you have said, why do we need 24 new directives and regulations and 20 new amending directives?
Mr President, I want to talk about the EQUAL report, especially the issue of the policy on refugees.
Is this not a contradiction?
First, there is the right of distribution as referred to in Article 8(1).
In this respect I would like to tell you that the Commission is prepared to keep the chairmen of the various committees involved in this area regularly informed, on a confidential basis, if the nature of the information provided requires confidentiality, on the different schemes being implemented for macroeconomic assistance.
Quite simply, I would say that there are several ways in which to attain positions of power and I am particularly against the system of quotas, because I believe it is especially contemptuous of women and I come from a country where parity has just been achieved.
That is certainly the view of my colleague, Commissioner Wallström, who I know would have wished to respond to this resolution in person today.
We detest the excess of paper, but given the requirements that we have to check and re-check and double check in order to guarantee effective financial control, sometimes the requirements of administration, which some call bureaucracy, are unavoidable.
In other words, there are quite a few imponderables that we are not being informed about and that others are presumably unable to get to grips with properly either.
One of the precepts of democracy is that we should not disapprove of electoral outcomes but respect them, and that is why we must respect the fact that the Austrians, by virtue of their political culture, voted as they did.
So I will simply appeal to the Commissioner to undertake full responsibility for such an important issue.
We could not agree more with the latter.
We therefore ask that his programme be a bold one and, if it is, I can assure him that he will have the support of this House in the reform process.
This way of seeing things I consider to be proof of spectacular incompetence on the part of many of today' s decision makers.
Can the Commission account for the lengthy gestation of this draft, which should in theory have emerged in its final form in 1998?
It is clear that electronic mail, electronic commerce is going to become extremely important in the future.
If we do not take steps to deal with that, we will fail ultimately.
The financial regulation is the legal framework we need to tackle the priorities established under the terms of the accession partnerships with Malta and Cyprus.
We, the European Union, therefore have a special responsibility to help, support and rebuild the Balkans now.
We know the strength that they have acquired over these forty years of building the Community.
These are areas where the citizen can see and understand the benefit of Europe.
Some other points of agreement highlighted in Mrs McCarthy' s report, the effectiveness of this instrument through the concentration of funding and a critical mass for intervention, the horizontal operation which we think more conducive to disseminating results and increasing the exchange of experience and good practice and, finally, the increasing role of local authorities in the planning and management of the programmes, on the basis of a real partnership.
Our messages to our citizens and to the Council are muddled and lack credibility.
I should like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues on the committee for supporting the amendments tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
It is right for joint resources to be controlled supranationally and not to be delegated to the Member States or the TAOs, as has been the case in the past.
This is the only opportunity that we have to see to it that the interests of economists converge with those of people who want to earn money and have their mind set on dollars, like Disney' s Scrooge McDuck, who has dollar signs for eyes, except in this case the symbol is that of the euro.
Having said that, the duty of transparency and debate starts here with regard to the reform of the institutions.
Clearly some people are profiting from the opportunity to indulge in another budget bidding race which is particularly mistimed when the convergence criteria for EMU are imposing a very strict slimming regime on the national budgets.
Not to mention that the large one may hide a gigantic one, as the very next thing we will see is a proposal for a European criminal law and then, why not a European Minister of Justice, supervised by an extension of the powers of the European Parliament?
It is prepared to act on proposals by the Commission in any area for which there is Community competence.
But the need for common legislation is underlined by the fact that in the Netherlands they have liberalised, in Germany they have not, yet German companies which enjoy the protection of national law seek to take market share in the Netherlands.
My first thoughts are for the 26 Indian sailors, who were saved but of whom nothing has been said.
The principle of 'polluter pays' is not being applied.
He has convinced me of that.
It will be adopted through a legally-binding Commission decision to be published in the Official Journal of the European Communities.
Now, though, it should follow through with its actions, and the first to follow through should be the Commission, which, however, has been obscure and weak on this, making the value of the presidency' s position even more apparent.
In France, for example, the unequal distribution of the population over a vast territorial area makes the obligation to provide a public service absolutely indispensable in mail distribution if one wishes to maintain the equality of citizens and social cohesion.
It is just as good environmentally to burn old plastic as to burn new oil for energy recovery.
Mrs de Palacio will open the debate on behalf of the Commission.
President of the Commission, a short while ago you said that no political structure sets out five-year plans.
The third heavy burden on your shoulders is the responsibility for ensuring parliamentary scrutiny.
That too is feasible.
The problem for some of us, however, is the lack of specification of the extent of the legal base and of just how it would relate to considerations of subsidiarity.
Funding for energy saving still comes primarily from the Member States.
The following spring to mind in this respect: the systematic collation of documentation and information, professional forms of observation, the development of information campaigns, the use of cash to support democratic forces in the country concerned, a more creative deployment of the resources which are available through multilateral diplomacy, such as organised dialogue and fact finding missions and such like.
(Applause)
We know what happened recently at the UN General Assembly.
Questions to Mr Bolkestein
Directive 70/524 foresees the issue of labelling in the genetic modification of additives.
It also creates protection for software and databases.
More women in decision-making positions on various environmental bodies would extend the predominantly male terms of reference beyond business alone to embrace social justice as well.
Twenty years have passed since the Northern Ireland question was first raised in this Parliament.
This, Commissioner, is the first commandment for the coming period.
It is a very extensive report.
I want to ask Mr Prodi never more to comment on a proposal here in the House which is not, at the same time, available for critical scrutiny by the public.
Up the point at which meat, milk, bread and other products are sold over the shop counter, feedingstuffs and additives are structured, mixed, blended, cut and transported several times.
For the storms will have major implications for the forestry industry in all areas of Europe, and I believe we need, in the long-term, to give thought to how problems of this kind are to be dealt with in future.
The voluntary participation of people in development programmes is something that is not always fully appreciated.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, numerous steps have been taken in the past to strengthen the European Union, from the euro to resolutions on a common security policy; even to the response by the 14, the Commission and Parliament to the new coalition in Austria.
This does not conflict with a financing model involving the building up of funds.
Mr President, once again I would like to briefly outline the economic issues involved in this directive, and reaffirm my support for the amendments tabled by my colleague, Bernd Lange.
The Court of Auditors, therefore, already has all the instruments necessary to carry out its role.
Well, for example, we would like to see China move from signing the UN Conventions on Civil and Political Rights and on Social and Cultural Rights toward actually ratifying them.
The work in relation to BSE in Member States and the establishment of random testing to identify levels of infectivity in Member States is ongoing, I know that Mrs Roth-Behrendt has asked me this question before and I said I thought it was coming along quickly but I understand it is in inter-service consultation in the Commission and work is currently under way.
There was a clear agreement, good or bad I will not say, but there was a contract. There was a clear understanding between the Commission services and the Committee on Budgets that there was agreement on Amendments 4 and 7, i.e. on the idea of linking the mobilisation, the implementation, of the second tranche of macrofinancial aid to the condition that donors should first have fulfilled their relative obligations in terms of payment.
The essence of the precautionary principle is clear.
Perhaps I may inform Mr Ribeiro e Castro, who asked me about this, that, as I wrote to the presidents of each of these most remote regions, the Commission did indeed request an extension of several weeks before publishing its anticipated report.
For example, Acting President Vladimir Putin gave an assurance last Monday that he had ordered the country' s security services to bring the missing reporter back to Moscow safely.
I will tell you a few things we should do.
On this we are clear.
We should remember that the effectiveness of expenditure is not measured by the volume of funding allocated to the project.
I want to emphasise that a number of the other amendments affecting the proposal' s basic components involve a considerable watering-down of the level of environmental protection aimed at by the common position.
Instead, my question concerns the interpretation in principle of Article 255 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Furthermore, we want values that women consider important, such as peace, fraternity, equality, justice, security and environmental protection, to be the guiding spirit for life in the European Union and, if possible, throughout the world.
We adopted our recommendation unanimously in the committee because we felt that it was particularly important to continue URBAN - which in the past has been implemented successfully - because, as we see it, programmes of this kind are the only way in which we in the European Union will succeed in ensuring that in the long term all those who live in the European Union enjoy peaceful coexistence.
.
It is vitally important to give the correct signal to the outside world, in the form of this recommendation.
We have three outstanding problems.
It is to be welcomed that Mr van Hulten' s report makes the connection between all three areas and also makes it clear as to where the crucial shortcomings lie, which must be tackled.
Scotland, with a population of 5 million, has eight seats in this House at the moment; Denmark and Finland, with the same population, have sixteen.
In the current negotiations on this third Community support framework, I have asked for the provisions on the partnership principle to be fully respected, with regard to both regional and local authorities and to non-governmental organisations and associations.
The guidelines, as adopted by the Commission, are very limited because, instead of meeting the aim of providing guidance, they are providing a shopping list of possible measures, a shopping list which, as it fails to set priorities in ascending order, could even put the Member States on the wrong track by guiding them towards a series of proposals that is at odds with the desired concentration.
What is now needed is action.
However, I also agree with Mr Gallagher who felt bound to indicate his frustration at the tardiness of the Commission in getting into gear and transforming the recommendations into Community law.
It is important for there to be coordination between LEADER+ and the other support initiatives in the European Union, but coordination with other national support schemes is also just as important.
The real world simply does not work like that.
We support legality and democracy as expressed by the peoples, and favour upholding national sovereignty as long as this does not violate the principles of the Treaty or human rights.
Mr Purvis has the floor for a procedural motion.
We believe that to prejudge, at the moment, where resources should be directed, would create more practical difficulties.
Here too, specific efforts will be made of course; naturally they cannot be of a legislative nature, but they can operate on the basis of an exchange of best practices; in all cases, my initial contact with the chairmen and directors of these large companies has had positive results.
The use of selective fishing gear which reduces incidental unwanted catches and limits the throwing of unwanted fish back into the sea is certainly essential, as is a reduction of the pressure from the fishing industry offshore, as well as in coastal waters.
The water which these people need to exist is under threat because the groundwater strata there are being drilled by a mining company, and this is why the traditional way of life of the people who live there is being threatened.
We all want the highest standards for ships whatever flag they may be flying.
Photographs show us that there is no life on the asteroid, but much further out in our galaxy, the Milky Way, there are about 300 billion stars, many with planets.
The United States' delegation to the European Union is concerned about certain points in the last consultation paper, inter alia the phasing out of the materials already mentioned, as well as certain questions arising from the principle of manufacturers' responsibility for the disposal of electrical and electronic waste.
Mr President, I would like to extend a warm thank you to the rapporteur for his report.
But the Union will only continue to be more than a market and to be accredited by the people of Europe if it sees itself as a community of destinies.
The requirements propose to allow the authorities access to the facilities of all service providers, that is, telephones, mobile phones, Internet, etc.; and given the current extremely shoddy drafting, this is open to abuse. I would also like to ask: given that the user requirements specify that the police has access to all service providers without exception, does this include Parliament' s in-house service?
In any event, these common values are in complete opposition to those held by the party ironically known as the Austrian Freedom Party.
We want information from the Russian authorities as to Mr Babitsky' s whereabouts and his state of health.
The protection of the farmers themselves and the protection of public health.
In the Commission, systems and structures have built up over forty years in which successive enlargements have occurred.
Commissioner, I would like to come back again to my first question, when I asked about the other Commissioners, for it may have sounded as though I was in jest.
The knowledge that the framework relations between the European Parliament and the European Commission still remain to be negotiated led to our disagreement with the rapporteur when we debated his report in committee.
The Rules of Procedure do not allow this.
In my grandparents' time, it took several days to travel from Vitoria to Seville.
This would be a real tragedy and one which would weigh heavily on the conscience of us all.
The Commission is under the impression that she has worked fast and effectively.
I sincerely hope that all Member States will take the opportunity of this action plan and these two directives that the Commission has presented to the Council to reiterate in clear and concrete terms their approval for the action plan and for the directives and their commitment to fight against discrimination, racism and xenophobia wherever it might occur.
We need also to be sensitive to the concerns of Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I heartily congratulate the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the entire European Parliament for the great deal of interest shown in competition-related subjects.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group cannot vote for approving the accounts for 1997.
More active participation by these authorities in Community initiatives should be promoted, bearing in mind that in many cases they have a very limited capacity for cooperation because of the different legal frameworks and different levels of development on either side of the border.
But here too, within the European Union, expectations are high.
One thing shocked me in the speech of the President-in-Office of the Council.
The cost of this observatory is not permitted to exceed 2% of the LEADER budget.
The United Nation' s, and Mr Kouchner' s, mission in Kosovo ended in failure.
Mr President, two centuries ago, during the French Revolution, a very famous woman, Olympe de Gouges, was executed and proclaimed mad because she had supported equal rights for men and women.
Concluding negotiations is not the same as concluding them successfully.
It is about a Commission which is no more.
However, unlike Mr Christopher Huhne, we feel that a continent which has proved incapable of controlling its oil industry properly should not overly deregulate an industry which may, in time, provoke the same type of crisis.
Mr President, the debate we are holding today strongly underlines the need to discuss development policy in much broader terms than are involved in simply measuring the flow of aid.
I welcome you and your ambition.
It is the international community, and specifically the United Nations, which should be held responsible for implementing Resolution 12/99 and, in particular, for the thinking behind this resolution and for the compatibility of this resolution with reality.
Mr Prodi, you do not know what you are talking about.
Madam President, great importance has been attached to the reform process, which deserves to be acknowledged, although this may be somewhat premature.
A good opportunity to discuss the results, good practices and shortcomings of the earlier programmes was therefore lost.
I think we should be capable of saying this loud and clear.
The one thing it will not do is solve the problem - it is a massive sledgehammer to miss a nut.
The members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism of course also identify a number of areas of the Commission proposal which they would criticise: firstly, for example, the insufficient thematic guidelines laid down for the development partnership activities; secondly, the fact that strict selection criteria for evaluating the project proposals will only be drawn up only at a later stage by the Commission and thirdly, the fear of excessive administrative and technical expenditure on project management by the Commission and the technical assistance bodies.
It is very important, if we stress that Europe is to be a Europe of values, that we do not go down the road of saying that means justify ends.
As far as criminal investigations are concerned, for which I am responsible, I take note of the invitation that was addressed to the Commission and the Council by several Members of the European Parliament to take this issue on board and to address it on a common legal basis, having regard to the relevance the interception of telecommunications may have as evidence before the courts.
The first supporter of this reform should be Parliament itself, if it really wants to increase its role of interpreting the will of the Europeans and acquire the centrality which is part of a genuinely democratic and firmly integrated Union.
The income and employment generated by tourism help enormously in reducing imbalances and encouraging their economies to converge with the average rate of growth in the Community.
Therefore, the future of this new Commission will depend in no small measure on the extent to which reforms are swiftly undertaken here and financial control is back in working order.
More serious still is the fact that this is occurring while ignoring the new situation associated with the approach that has been adopted towards the enlargement process for the inclusion of regions such as Malta.
One aspect that was missing from the communication though is the aspect of surveillance and control.
The questions answered previously referred to Mrs de Palacio' s intervention, on another occasion, and not to these comments which appeared in the ABC newspaper on 18 November.
I would first like to express my heartfelt condolences to the families in mourning as a result of the appalling weather conditions that devastated Europe in December.
Absolutely, Mr Napolitano. Thank you.
From a UK perspective there is also a deep-seated political objection to the CFP.
The Council will no longer be able to block implementing measures indefinitely beyond the three-month period unless it has a qualified majority to block it, in other words, unless there is substantial opposition among the Member States represented in the Council.
And then we see that, increasingly, the regions, the various operators, businesses, associations, are submitting LIFE projects, both for LIFE-NATURE and LIFE-ENVIRONMENT, projects that are of excellent quality, which following technical assessment by all the competent committees are unanimously found to be worthy of European Union support, but we still cannot fund them, for lack of budget appropriations.
It is not to be brought in as a "sort of optional add-on" .
First of all, the importance of a public service in general is not at all emphasised. Secondly, all kinds of proposals are nevertheless being mooted, and we have to ask ourselves whether these are terribly appropriate and whether they would lead to improvement.
Why do I think we need the directive so much?
Surely we cannot tolerate the fact that Mrs Aung San Sui Kyi feels completely left in the lurch, even by Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Berend' s report is precisely in line with the strategy determined by the European Commission inasmuch as the question of increasing competitiveness is brought right to the fore.
There is no doubt that abandoned cars represent a serious threat to the visual and physical environment.
He should never have been able to escape from France, but the officers pursuing him had no jurisdiction and European frontiers have more holes than a sieve.
Our central aim must be to give the Union a weight in global affairs commensurate with its weight in terms of aid, trade and finance.
The first is the transfer of water between basin areas.
Thirdly, we must expect things to change gradually.
Madam President, this matter is far too serious to be dealt with by means of an urgent procedure at this time.
There are therefore two possible solutions: either the Directive is inapplicable in Denmark, or Denmark is required by the Directive to introduce universally applicable agreements.
The lynch mob and their extreme right-wing mentors are the mortal enemies not only of the workers, but of society as a whole.
It is very clear, however, that parts of the Commission services are already very stretched.
It also forgets that enlargement means that we must get regional policy right. Unless we achieve real convergence, the cohesion of the European Union itself will be at risk.
The amount that we are asking for is no great mountain of useless expenditure.
We want to be a model of a completely computerised administration.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
After all, examining the issue of transparency in the ways the institutions operate should never be hidden away under any old heading or confined to some lobby or other - though I know full well the importance of these lobbies.
We should remember that we, the European Union, are a union of minorities: we are all a minority within Europe.
It would really be a nuisance if Parliament were to attempt to achieve this unofficially by extending its powers.
It is up to us, as responsible Europeans, to prove that the single market and the free movement of goods and food safety are not mutually exclusive.
Measures are based on an examination of the potential benefits and costs of action or lack of action; that is, the measures should be cost-effective and subject to review in the light of new scientific data and be clear about who is responsible for producing the scientific evidence necessary for a more comprehensive risk assessment, that is the burden of proof.
The Commission does not have enough staff.
We have calculated that the cost of recycling cars does not constitute more than one per cent of the price of a new car.
We have to remember that our basic energy production cannot be based on renewables for a long time to come.
Secondly, I understand the worry of industry regarding legal certainty.
Public monies are used in order to repair the damage caused by international speculation, as was the case in Mexico, Asia and Brazil.
This clearly shows that it is the four countries which benefit from the Cohesion Fund, among other things, which come at the top of the list.
With regard to the first area - new forms of governance for Europe - you already know that the Commission has undertaken to produce a White Paper and not a full legislative text since, in the light of major issues which are changing the structure of the way we interact, the Commission is first of all preparing for a debate; we will subsequently discuss the content with you; this will give rise to a policy document, and finally, a legislative document.
In my opinion, this is the only way to fight crime effectively across all Member States.
But we see no reason to lower our guard.
B5-0167/2000 by Mr Maaten and Mrs Thors on behalf of the Group of the European Democrat and Reform Party,
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I must express my surprise at this debate on the international movement of capital and its possible taxation which, although it does not mention it in the text, appears to be an attempt to revive, as the introduction has done, the issue of the tax proposed some years ago by Mr Tobin, which our Group opposed, clearly and totally, during the last legislature, with a series of arguments clearly and coherently expressed by our President, Mr Cox.
That is scandalous, their case ought to be heard.
In this context, it is important for those of us who support the idea of a Palestinian state that the latter should be as Commissioner Patten said, namely a state subject to public control, and that it should be a democratic state.
Mr President, I would very much like to thank Mrs Schroedter for the work she has done on this and to explain to colleagues that I am speaking for my colleague, Mrs Flautre, who followed this for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs but who is unfortunately ill.
However, according to the SCRS study, the regulation establishing the 6.4 kg minimum has been poorly enforced in the East Atlantic and Mediterranean fisheries.
We need new rules to regulate globalisation and we need investment in the real economy and in people. We need the Member States and the Commission to ensure the social dimension of the market economy in a visible manner.
It is a highly complex problem.
These authorities must also help to achieve difficult agreements between the parties involved and must not hinder these, as has happened with the mayor in question.
I am very pleased that at our overall relations with FYROM are in such a good state.
Although this may seem rather egotistical, I want the Commission, in the minds of the people, to have a face and for those people forming the Commission to be able to meet our citizens as often as possible.
We would, on the other hand, like to thank Commissioner Vitorino for attending the debate held in this Chamber.
There are absolute assurances of that and provisions made for it in the White Paper.
Very large quantities of dangerous goods are transported around the EU, both on roads and railways and by sea.
If I were to go to the other extreme, as few hurdles as possible that is, then I would run the risk of failing to produce any legislation whatsoever in the course of this procedure because the Member States would not sign up to this directive.
Proposal for a resolution (B5-0142/2000) by Messrs Mrs Hautala, Mr Lannoye and Mrs Maes, on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group, on the strategic objectives for 2000-2005
Mr Corbett set out Parliament' s concerns.
The debate is closed.
We need, therefore, to find a way forward towards these political ends and objectives, to address, not merely the scepticism but the greatest enemy, the apathy which you identify.
.
Furthermore, behind these programmes, that is to say, the SAVE programme, which concerns greater efficiency and energy savings, and the Altener programme, which concerns renewable energy, there lies an extremely important technological challenge, which, from an economic point of view, may offer significant opportunities to industry and also for the creation of jobs in our countries and therefore in the Union as a whole.
As candidate countries of the European Union, they therefore wish to fully participate in this interesting initiative from the very beginning, that is to say as of now.
It is the opinion of our Group that even the report, considered as a whole, would be the subject of much debate, notwithstanding the incorporation of certain corrective amendments that take into account the safeguarding of personal liberty and respect for national sovereignties.
However, I should like once again to raise the issue of antibiotics.
The declarations made on the Cyprus question by the Council and the Commission were therefore most opportune and I should like to thank the President of the Council and Commissioner Verheugen.
Clearly, any future social action programme should take account of developments, for example within information technology, and, in time, become a modern social action programme.
Secondly, it is true that a policy of preserving the marine environment must be practised both in Community seas and in international waters or those belonging to third countries.
This is the only way to go forward, because the real way to deliver social justice in Europe - and after all that is what we are all here to do - is to deliver prosperity and opportunities and jobs.
May I say something about costs.
We also agree with the rapporteur about asking for more attention to be paid to small and medium-sized undertakings and, of course, about refusing to use outside service providers.
I support the Council proposals in this, while deploring a certain lack of strength, a certain spinelessness, on the part of the Commission which will, however, have to be vigilant on a day-by-day basis, with determination over time, since Fascists count on the spinelessness of democracy, they count on time to wear us down and they hope to impose their views in the end.
I would like to point out that, within this broad consensus, there were some Groups which said that the majority of Parliament should form an opposition to the majority of the Council.
Not necessary!
We have reached a balanced agreement on cooperation in this area.
Subject: Farming and the Portuguese Presidency Will the Council outline the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency for the next six months as regards the common agricultural policy and indicate the steps it feels are necessary to boost consumer confidence in the agricultural sectors and products adversely affected by recent health scares?
So when we talk now about the need to involve the Northern Cyprus community in exchanges of information, particularly with a view to the eventual accession of the Republic of Cyprus to the European Union, we need to be aware that we are trying to find practical formulas that will enable us to overcome the obstacles standing in the way of a political solution.
We need specific proposals, both for legislation and for action programmes associated with the fight against discrimination and the formation of free and fair societies.
In the Member State where I come from, you are talking about 150 Guilders per car.
But there will always be people who are looking for seasonal employment.
It is also important for the different watercourses to be kept together and managed as the totality they in fact are, irrespective of who owns one section or another of a common watercourse.
The quality of services has, generally speaking, improved, in particular in regard to cross-border activity.
Finally, on large-scale energy transmission networks, the guidelines also provide for financial participation from the Funds to develop these networks where this helps to reduce dependency on an external supplier or to combat the effects of isolation.
Furthermore, the centralised European system, as we can see it developing today and as we can foresee it by extrapolation, erodes nations and, in eroding nations, erodes the national patriotism which forms the basis of our will to defend ourselves.
Thank you, too, those who contributed to this matter' s being dealt with swiftly. I am thinking in particular of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
A successive phasing out of State aid is required, and more and more markets must be opened up to competition.
We were recently rapped on the knuckles by the Commission regarding this matter.
What is more, the movement of fish is like CO2 or like capital, it is not European, but world-wide.
I believe we have to place our confidence in human resources, partly through a macro-economic policy which creates demand and potential new jobs and partly - and perhaps above all - by relying upon measures in the workplace such as training, democratisation and good social conditions.
Mrs Frassoni, our rapporteur, has done very careful work and identified the questions that have to be clarified in the context of that interinstitutional agreement and the administrative procedures that may have to be changed within Parliament.
I think your intervention may clarify various points that were raised.
. Mr President, I am pleased to have been given this opportunity to discuss a subject where there is good cooperation between Parliament and the Commission, namely combating TSEs.
We therefore consider that, in future, vehicles which clearly and effectively use lightweight construction methods will produce less CO2 and should receive preferential treatment in their combustion quotas.
First of all we have to find and call to account those who are guilty of the act.
And I defy you to imagine that there will not be membership applications in due form from Croatia, Macedonia and Bosnia, amongst the Balkan countries, three years hence.
The thought of an incident of this kind occurring in the near future should concentrate her mind and the minds of her officials wonderfully.
This is a worthy objective, the implementation of which, however, has sometimes revealed an ignorance of the biological characteristics of Mediterranean species of fish.
It was, in fact, in Macedonia that I heard at the time about the Roma population actually not having too bad a time there.
To this we must add the water pollution problems which afflict the potential new Member States in the East.
I would like to say that this report represents a huge improvement, also with its amendments.
I salute Mr Schmidt.
Our priorities (i.e. the "left-overs" ) must be:
In actual fact they have had a moratorium imposed upon them without any recompense, without any real negotiation or discussion.
It is now the case, following adoption of the Amsterdam Treaty, that Parliament wishes, on the basis of Article 300, to be kept fully informed of all decisions, and the Commission will continue to take account of Parliament' s decisions on this subject.
Moreover, half of this group is from the United States and Germany.
That is why we tend to consider that it might be more appropriate in this context to proceed with the revision of the European Works Council Directive only after the conclusion of those two dossiers and following a more complete evaluation of the application of the directive.
This will cause practical problems in the future, and I hope that despite this it will be possible to implement INTERREG effectively.
I would repeat what Mr Patten said: we must engage, we must inform, educate and thereby effect real and lasting change.
Quite the contrary - it will have to be the subject of a concerted effort in terms of discussion and legislative and institutional preparation, be it on the part of the Commission or of the Council, or even on the part of the European Parliament itself, and some Members have in fact already suggested that a monitoring centre or a working party could be established to monitor the impact of various policies in the specific area of development.
All the amendments I have listed so far pertain to the first proposal.
If the European Union responds positively to the recommendation of our associates, we will be proving our respect and consideration for those associates and this will have positive effects on the whole framework of our cooperation with them.
We are certainly in favour of this strategic vision but we need to be brave and ambitious.
I am happy with the rapporteur' s treatment of state aid and I congratulate him on this.
However, the environment constitutes a far bigger and more serious problem than smoking.
This is why I give this report my full support.
I have already said that Turkey is part of the NPT and of the Convention on Nuclear Safety.
And as soon as these are published in the Official Journal the remaining months - in fact six months - can be used to submit LEADER+ programmes.
Action must get under way immediately.
The second is the rights reserved for citizens of the European Union. The third is economic and social rights, as contained in the European Social Charter and the Community Charter of the Fundamental Social Rights of Workers, insofar as they do not merely establish objectives for action by the Union.
But the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 1, 4, 9, 11, 13, 15, 19, 23, 39, 40, 41, 49, 51, 59, 61, 64, 66, 70, 71, 72, 74, 77, 83, 87, 90, 91, 92, 95, 97, 98, 81(rev.), 100, 101, 103 and 107.
We are in favour of the International Criminal Court, but it does not yet exist.
Within the European Commission, the Directorate-General for Employment is responsible for implementation, while financial control is the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Financial Control, the Anti-Fraud Office and the European Court of Auditors.
We have done away with so-called master-feeder structures.
Unfortunately, very little.
The Commission' s response has been as follows: firstly, the health sector has been a significant beneficiary of ECHO funding.
I am especially grateful for all of this.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, the view of the Greek Communist Party is that the main problem of Cyprus is not its accession to the European Union but the occupation of 40% of its territory by Turkey, which has continued for 26 years.
This would be necessary to keep safety standards at the level they were in northern regions previously.
For example, these would be measures for vocational training, for further education, for re-integrating people who have already been excluded from the production process, for the flexibilisation of working time and working time arrangements, in order to bring about a definite improvement in the integration of personal and social aspects and perhaps also to promote employment opportunities for women again.
We will therefore vote for the Greens' Amendments Nos 102, 103 and 104, which we consider to be improvements on the present position.
Some Member States are taking refuge in the fact that they have provided military forces and that they cannot send the police forces, to which they committed themselves, as quickly as they would like.
I agree with every word the Commissioner said in her remarks, but the question is, how long will it take to ensure that measures are introduced to deal with the problem in the way she proposes?
I therefore cannot see any reason why Article 22, paragraph 3 should be omitted and reject the amendment for this reason.
In short, we face a major challenge in meeting our commitments on limiting greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector under the Kyoto Protocol, while at the same time promoting growth in our economies.
The time for resolutions has passed.
I believe that the Irish Government and the European Commission and different EU governments cannot alone decide on specific spending priorities.
That message must be taken back from here today.
I would also like to make a more general point.
The process of agreeing these common standards may have started as long ago as 1978 but clearly the fact that the British Government appears to be going ahead with a massively environmentally damaging project suggests that it has not been very successful so far.
I was able to attend this meeting this morning and met with the representatives at lunch.
This across-the-board approach is sensible because the programmes for rural development are also structured in this way.
I have read a few documents written by Mr Kinnock and we have every confidence in them.
In view of our experience of the submission of data in the fisheries sector, as evidenced by the reports on compliance with the MAGPs, I believe that instead of obtaining a full picture of the situation in the sector, we will end up with total confusion. For example, some Member States will provide scientific data but not employment data while others will provide data on employment but none on the situation of resources, according to whether they can or want to obtain and send this data.
The Tampere Council, the motor and architect of this objective, has proposed certain goals, but five years, the time scale laid down for the implementation of Chapter IV of the Treaty, is too long to wait for the urgent solution which some problems require.
I would have liked my speech to be part of a discussion that would have also treated the second part of the Commission' s proposal.
And a woman was elected.
I am thinking of the proposal to set up a rapid reaction facility and a rapid reaction force for non-military operations and to introduce headline goals for non-military operations, together with a Commission Crisis Centre.
The framework decision will, however, have to be supplemented by other legal acts in future.
We belong together, even when there are problems.
The new Commission's own objective is to double the number of women managers before the end of its term of office.
Question No 7 by (H-0035/00):
We must govern Europe in such a way as to make us more efficient, to bring us closer to the citizens and to encourage everyone to get involved, starting with the important issue of the involvement of women.
I do not know if it breaks the record for all the resolutions presented here, but, for this type of resolution it certainly does.
Although it is a little more expensive, it does not harm the environment.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
There are many opportunities to hide.
And so it is the "two key" principle that applies here.
I would remind you that car manufacturers have admitted that they can live with the directive; the costs are not excessive: recycling a car costs less than 1% of the price of a new car.
Mr Rübig, as President-in-Office, I cannot give you an answer for the simple reason that the statement by the Portuguese Prime Minister on behalf of the fourteen Heads of State and Government of the Member States of the European Union was adopted bilaterally and not by him in his capacity as President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union.
It is for that reason that a careful approach towards the control of ISA is needed.
Commissioner Vitorino, although I would describe cooperation with you as harmonious and profitable, words have often failed me in the past when faced with the conduct which the Council has demonstrated towards us.
They may also adopt alternative conditions for transportation of a local nature and for ad hoc transportation.
We still await the first report, and that is why I believe this debate was premature, as the Commission had little to say on coherence this morning.
In particular, we should be working towards establishing genuine freedom of movement and resolving the problems of demilitarising and disarming the island.
This is an opportunity for us to improve the situation.
Therefore, independence is prerequisite for effective checks.
Are preventive sanctions reconcilable with the Charter of Human Rights?
The operational programmes need to be approved as quickly as possible by the Commission, which implies practical and efficient administration of applications and completion of the application approval process as quickly as possible.
These regional assemblies would monitor action in their respective areas.
Another important point is that we must do all we can, not just to prevent excessive deficits, but also to further reduce public deficits.
- (FR) In voting against this report, we are acting as spokespersons for all the men and women who in Seattle and throughout Europe expressed their rejection of a world reduced to strict commercial logic.
The topic has been brought under the codecision procedure and as a result, we have been able to draft important, more stringent legislation as early on as at first reading.
We therefore support Mrs Lienemann' s amendment which observes that the allocation for LIFE was not increased when the Union was last enlarged, without even mentioning the next batch of new arrivals.
The sixth periodical report gives a basis for assessing the implementation of the Union' s regional policy aims.
(Applause)
We have presented the Council with a series of questions and I know that it is the will of the Portuguese Presidency to answer each and every one of them.
Report (A5-0012/2000) by Mr Berger, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the proposal for a Council directive extending the freedom to provide cross-border services to third-country nationals established within the Community (COM(99)0003 - C5-0050/2000 - 1999/0013(CNS))
Let me refer you to the explanatory statement for the quantitative aspects of the report and simply mention at this point that the annual level of state aid, on average, for the period under review, is in the order of EUR 95 billion, corresponding to a reduction in the order of 13 % in relation to the period 1993-1995, a reduction which is essentially due to a reduction in aid in the Federal Republic of Germany.
They are wrong.
I have received 8 motions for resolution, in accordance with Rule 37(2), to close the present Commission statement.
I refuse to accept that we can now talk about a genocide in reverse - that is bending the truth.
Mr President, I am taking the floor to express my opinion, drawn from my experience of municipal administration, that the URBAN projects should, or rather must, have a threefold purpose: firstly, to promote the restoration of infrastructure and historic, old and perhaps dilapidated areas of cities.
If the Union takes the initiative, this will have a ratchet effect because this debate is occurring all over the world, including in the USA and Japan. A desire is being expressed everywhere with increasing force that the world should not be ruled by traders but by the people, their parliaments, their governments and their democratic institutions.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I am a right-wing Member of Parliament but I have the same battles as my colleagues in supporting and assisting fellow citizens in my country to gain power and access to decision-making posts, which should be feasible not only in the political arena but clearly also in all sectors of society.
This solution is unacceptable because these car manufacturers have not had the opportunity to build the environmental demands we are making of them today into their manufacturing procedures and their manufacturing costs.
Although the actual implementation of the Stability Pact has not yet started, the Commission has already developed the new instrument, entitled the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
As Amendment No 18 refers to Directive 96/71 concerning the minimum wage which is already in force, no change is necessary.
I discovered that the EU is using ERDF resources to finance the construction of a wharf in Vilagarcia, in Galicia, for storing chemical and hydrocarbon products, on a site which will only employ three workers. This contravenes the EC environmental impact directive in relation to an estuary such as Arousa, where 26 000 people earn a living from the seafood industry.
In this respect, one of the variants considered is reminiscent of the Dutch polder model, the structurally planned cooperation between government, trade unions and employers' organisations.
Is not Mr Barnier nervous about penetrating the inner workings of the Member States' election processes?
This led to an agreement being signed whereby the UK Government agreed to introduce procedures to ensure that EU spending reached the areas for which is was intended and was actually additional.
On the bottom of the Wadden Sea, the values of mercury and TBT are higher than the OSPAR value, to wit, ten and one thousand times, respectively.
It is therefore necessary to continue to limit state aid for research, development, environmental protection and cases of company closure.
Their real aim was to moderate and disguise the new CAP' s disastrous consequences and the disorientation of small and medium-scale farmers, and not to develop the rural areas or retain the agricultural population therein as was hypocritically declared in their objectives.
We know what the problem is: instability on the markets as the result of speculation.
Approximately ten per cent of lead production is to be found in cars, but also cadmium, chromium, mercury and other very dangerous substances.
It is clear to everyone that this is essential to guaranteeing security in the area and to cooperating in the development which is needed to heal the serious social differences which exist.
These are the modern means to be used.
The measures eligible for funding listed in Annex II of strand A do also seem encouraging in this respect.
There is a second issue I would like to raise.
The aspirations are fine, President Prodi, we want those aspirations to be matched by action.
We have thrown water a life-belt.
I am sure that the President-in-Office of the Council is prepared to answer everything, but I must ensure that this sitting consists of questions and answers.
Indeed it must be permissible for state aid to be provided for such purposes, provided it does not lead to unacceptable distortion of competition.
This is why the Liberal Group will vote against paragraph 8 and the second section of paragraph 9.
I have already had a chance to discuss my position with Mr Ringholm, the Swedish Finance Minister on two occasions.
The new operational environment is, above all, a huge opportunity to create and spread culture in a different way than ever before.
EUR 850 million - assuming that such a figure is actually agreed - believe me, is not enough, in practical terms, to allow any type of project to be carried out.
Madam President, you spoke about fundamental political values, and one of the fundamental political values, even more important than democracy, is respect for others.
My final point is that the regulations and the legislation must take into account the special position of the vintage car sector throughout the European Community because of its role in relation to the social sector and its environmental and economic considerations.
We have been waiting for a report on coherence for years.
Can the Commission confirm that the Directive concerning the posting of workers is inapplicable in Denmark as far as 'collective agreements ... declared universally applicable' (cf. Article 3(1)) are concerned, given that such universally applicable agreements do not exist under Danish law?
In a global village, major discrepancies in the world will not, in the longer term, be tolerated by the poorest section of the village.
But from the perspective of small Member States it is important that, as the European Commission is reformed, it must be done in a way that ensures that small Member States continue to have representation on the Commission.
When the European Parliament is informed, it generally has to adopt a position within the very short timeframe of four weeks, should it so wish.
We already have a directive.
I have referred to a series of issues which I will lay out in more detail, if you wish, in an appearance before a special committee on this matter, or when I present the actual initiatives in the coming months.
This is obviously a question which really has to be seen in a NATO context, but, as the European Union shares NATO' s view of these issues, it is not difficult for us to associate ourselves with this. I would like to make this clear on behalf of the Council, so that there can be no doubt.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Byrne.
The second proposal grants the same rights to self-employed workers who are third country nationals.
The time-scale therefore proposed by the Commission is very ambitious.
This item has been postponed until the next part-session in March.
This goes against the Commission' s intention to widen the scope of investments, and the wording thereof could contravene GATS agreements.
Then, by gearing actions to micro-projects and making them accessible to the civil society in the southern countries and, finally, by calling for enlargement and the rapid accession of Cuba, which all the ACP called for at Nassau and which has now made a formal application.
Parliament has frequently made that point.
This directive is the necessary counterpart of the proposed decision and largely embraces the key principles of the WIPO Treaties.
Having set it up, I hope the Commission actually makes use of it and therefore does not just allow it to sit around in the corridors and gather dust.
The document is unfair both to Austrian Members of the European Parliament, and to members of the Austrian national parliament, and it smacks slightly of jealousy and political interests, but also of business.
50% or more of hospital beds are now occupied by someone suffering with an AIDS related disease in the countries where AIDS figures are highest.
Mr Medina Ortega asked me some very concrete questions.
Until 1999, this technical assistance and financial aid was provided under the fourth financial protocols (B7-4011).
However, in this context, Madam President, to allow us to work out the details, I should like to request that the vote on the EQUAL report be held not tomorrow but on Wednesday.
For our part, we are prepared to study any proposals made in this area.
It is clear that by extending the proposal under discussion, the options and the range of investments in undertakings for collective investments, those undertakings which remain outside the rules will be obliged to invest in high-risk funds.
We all hold the view that competition is vital to the economy and requires there to be efficiency, and I believe we should also permit competition in the regions.
Competition is a war which has major concerns fighting each other, which constantly takes the form of layoffs, factory closures, not to mention extensive waste of production capacity.
I visited Doñana after the spill and saw how agriculture, fishing and the lives of people in the surrounding area were enormously compromised.
The first priority is to improve the competitiveness of regional economies in order to create, in all sectors, but especially in the private sector, as Mr Berend said, the maximum number of serious, worthwhile and permanent jobs, the competitiveness of regional economies, all regional economies, and in particular, Mr Evans, that of Wales, but not only of Wales.
In other words, we should ensure that the money falls to Mr Kouchner' s sphere of competence and not to other spheres.
It is this diversity in our criminal policies which we have to address and legislating properly means looking for genuine legal convergence criteria and facing up to the reality of prisons in Europe, which are often overcrowded places outside the law which are a disgrace to the conception we have of ourselves.
Mr President, ever since Plato' s 'Republic' , the Western world has regularly been tempted to replace government by the people with government by experts.
I believe that today' s proposal strikes a good balance between liberalisation of the market and the desire for effective protection for investors.
It is irrelevant, as far as I am concerned, as to whether it is Serbs, Roma, Bosnians or Albanians who are threatened or killed in Kosovo.
Once again, there will be no clearly defined party responsible.
During the Finnish presidential term, a report was produced that reveals an image of the whole decision-making process, and, on the basis of this report, I hope that the Commissioner proposes legally binding ways of improving the position of women in decision making.
That is exactly what it is all about, otherwise we might as well not bother talking about the precautionary principle here, Commissioner!
Just like the previous report, this extremely competent and precise analysis, the recommendations it supports and your own comments, ladies and gentlemen, shall prove useful to the Commission in general and to the Commissioner responsible for regional policy in particular at this time when we are involved with the programming of appropriations for 2000-2006.
Several Members have made that point again in the course of today's debate.
The Austrian Freedom Party leader, Mr Haider, has repeatedly repudiated these values.
It did not work; poverty became worse than ever.
My group strongly welcomes the IGC and will be contributing to this Treaty reform process to the maximum possible extent.
This demand makes conciliation almost impossible and even affects the dignity of the parliamentary institution.
A number of codes have since been introduced.
Thirdly, we should like a clear statement regarding the pricing policy.
All this to combat fraud worth less than EUR 1 billion, while disregarding the tens of billions of euros lost due to the Generalised System of Preferences, free trade areas, customs presents to Chiquita and the billions lost to the fourth resource, GDP, as a result of the budgetary rationing pact.
The work should, of course, be regulated and subject to license in the future too, but the same rules cannot apply to, for example, Finland and Greece, which suffers from drought.
We are able but the rest of the female population is not?
We are currently holding a debate in my own country on whether the former minister for finance actually gave us accurate information on the deficit.
In other words, we need real cost-effectiveness for our entire energy supply system.
Mr President, the postal service is not a normal service provider like a hairdresser' s or a fitness centre.
We also have several questions to ask you that show our concern, that is the least one can say.
The cofinancing provided by the Member State does not need to be additional to its existing expenditure.
The European Peace and Reconciliation Fund has also been a success in creating jobs in border counties in Ireland.
For example, I believe it is worth considering making the Court of First Instance that of Last Instance, if applicable, and making this a final competence, in those spheres where benches of the Court, which resemble courts, pass judgement at a preliminary stage - I need only mention the keyword Alicante or whatever the plans are for European civil service law.
But we feel that it would be wiser not to set unrealistic deadlines which neither our governments nor our industries will be able to meet.
We therefore now call upon the Commission to urgently adopt measures to help the fisheries sector by means of special funds.
However the Union should be seeking, beyond that, to improve the quality of both surface and groundwater.
So, we will try to be very clear about how and when to use it.
This resembles a kind of trade in human beings.
Accordingly, the bureaucratic hurdles that have to be overcome would be lower in this instance.
Why has the Council not informed us of this?
We need multinational companies to base their businesses within our continent.
As I see it, this means that Mr Haider' s politics are already casting their shadow over this Parliament.
As the presidency said, much remains to be done, despite the understandable request by Parliament and many NGOs that the European Union should set out its position well in advance of the Geneva session.
With the review of the common fisheries policy due in 2002, it is important that swift progress is now made.
Now, the concept of "uniform harmonisation" is one of those muddled expressions which totally obfuscates the integration process in question. It is also true, as it states in the explanatory statement, that harmonisation could be damaging as "it might place greater demands on weaker Member States at the same time as competitive considerations might exert pressure on more socially developed countries to cut back on social security.
We talk a great deal about the precautionary principle but, in the case of antibiotics, it has long since been forgotten.
I would stress the LIFE-NATURE strand in particular.
I hope that before the end of this new Lomé Convention we will be able to welcome Cuba as a full member.
We are not doing a bad job of management.
I am pleased to see that the debate on Mrs McNally' s report with a view to increasing and facilitating women' s participation in professions in research and science, met with a fairly wide consensus.
You talked about how women can help in increasing production and growth.
This is the essence of how I understand the situation: we are being told that it is essential for us to reach a conclusion quickly, that, basically, the Members of Parliament should drop their claims, particularly claims on the budget, for if we do not soon, in line with the codecision procedure, get around to establishing the framework of the regulations for LIFE, then its implementation for the year 2000 is going to suffer a delay, and in the meantime the NGOs and the operators at grass roots level are waiting for our appropriations.
The availability of unskilled, temporary and seasonal work is very important in some of the economic areas of the Community.
The main idea ought to be that each administration takes responsibility for its own supervision.
Nevertheless, it is a move towards protecting the rights of countries, defendants and citizens, a path which I think must be pursued much more completely and much more boldly.
We see enlargement as a positive sum gain for member and candidate states.
Absolutely, I do not think that will pose a problem.
. On behalf of the European Parliament Labour Party, I wish to indicate that while we have supported the major part of the Lienemann report, we have certain reservations.
Now, as regards the Brok report, Cyprus and Malta are the last of the Mediterranean islands, and, unless I am mistaken, the last islands anywhere in Europe which have not acceded to the European Union.
One area though is extremely important, and this House must be involved in it: namely scrutiny.
We are also pleased to see certain statements and intentions which it contains and which Mr Prodi has just underlined and, in some cases, usefully clarified.
With regard to the problems afflicting Macedonia, higher education for the Albanian-speaking citizens deserves our special attention.
Particular emphasis is given to the point that women' s opportunities on the labour market ought to be improved and that to achieve this more crèches should be built.
We are doing it in order to try to explain in the fullest terms the system into which they will be entering.
(The order of business was adopted thus amended)
Combating certain fish diseases
Questions to Mr Nielson, who is replaced by Mr Patten
The particular difficulties in Mitrovica - for example, it is not just a question of Albanian patients having difficulty getting to hospital, Albanian staff have had difficulty working there - are particularly acute problems.
With some 80% of the population of Europe living in an urban area, cities are at the forefront of economic, social and cultural change in Europe.
The report itself is well-intentioned but, as so often when we deal with these issues, lacks clarity of purpose and a sound basis for operability.
Let us make this clear, however much some people may not wish to believe it.
I do not believe, Mr Solana, that we can restore this credibility by military means.
I would ask him to be brief.
Then we will be in a position to carry out methodical monitoring and follow-up procedures.
However, we must stress the need to continue developing the construction of the European internal market which still has some serious flaws.
I am glad to see that the hope Mr Swoboda expressed in his report will be fulfilled early in March, i.e. that we will finally have an EU delegation there and that we, as the European Union, will finally have a greater role to play there.
In 1998 and 1999 Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan received technical assistance of EUR 75 million.
As I have said, numerous amendments have been incorporated which guarantee the rights of the defence - I am thinking here of the obligation for interceptions to be requested by a judge - or the prohibition on holding both an investigative and a judicial mandate as part of a joint investigation team.
I should like to comment very briefly on a number of other points in the draft resolution.
There are preparations which can be made and they are specified and set out with the full reassurances in the reform strategy, but enactment of change in the legislation is obviously of fundamental importance to the operation of the new system.
The content of the proposal concerns the average 48-hour working week of doctors, with the possibility, following negotiation, of increasing it to 54 hours.
The conclusions of the Tampere special European Council, as Mr Hernandez Mollar said, clearly illustrated the will of the Heads of State and Government as regards the introduction of a common policy on immigration and the principles on which it should be based, with particular emphasis on the Union' s policy on the respect and promotion of the rights of migrants.
(The speaker is interrupted by Mr Markov) I thought I had the floor.
Welcome
I do not want to link this question with your comments about the period "before" and "after" NATO' s intervention, as we will probably touch on that issue at another point during this Question Time.
After this interesting exchange of opinions, and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like to tell you that Questions Nos 17 to 27 will be replied to in writing.
I hope that the honourable Members will agree to support these proposals as a sign of goodwill towards FYROM.
We will certainly make sure that the President is informed of your statement.
Despite the fact that the Community, through the structural funds among others, injects considerable sums into combating the disparities between regional development opportunities in Europe, these disparities continue to exist.
The delegations are actively engaged - as am I in my delegation for relations with the Czech Republic - but it is clear that there is often a pronounced schoolmasterish tone to our dealings with one another.
These splendid cars do not constitute waste.
I agree that the European Parliament did not have the opportunity - or that it was not given the opportunity, as we had reached the end of the parliamentary term - to discuss the directives.
Then we shall follow the usual procedure, hearing one speaker in favour and one against.
That would be more productive and I do not like seeing the various committee agendas that are already overloaded being cut again and again because of this kind of show-piece.
I therefore ask you to reject the four amendments tabled so that we can close this chapter on fisheries and the environment with the thought which came up in the committee' s debate. These two areas are closely related and they suffer the effects of the same environmental attacks.
They must be assessed by Parliament and should be made legally binding.
There is, of course, the question of pre-accession aid, and this belongs in category seven.
The disease is always fatal.
Madam President, Representative of the Council, Commissioner, a week ago, the big international Holocaust Conference ended in Stockholm.
Our main support in the future must be for research and development and human capital.
Last November, the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party adopted a position on internal differentiation within the Union when it proposed a system of concentric rings for Europe: the onion skin model.
I would like to thank Mr Hudghton for his excellent report on ISA and for broadly supporting the measures proposed by the Commission and also for the contributions from each of the speakers this evening.
We also wish to see these publicised on the Internet, so that there may be maximum transparency with regard to this specific point.
What sort of impression will an interested public, as well as the rest of the world, have of this five-year programme?
And it is precisely the medium-sized undertakings and large numbers of employees who suffer as a result.
The chemical industry and society as a whole have to learn to replace these dangerous chemical substances by harmless substitutes, and if this is impossible, to apply them in closed systems.
I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that the failure of the Commission' s communication to focus on territorial pacts and, especially, methods of combating unemployment among women and young people, is cause for serious concern.
The INTERREG Community Initiative Programme is an extremely important tool in terms of the development and regional planning of European territory, most particularly with reference to effectively taking into account the relationship between the centre of the European Union and its outlying regions.
Indeed, it was fuelled by the potential of this tax to generate income for international, public programmes at a time when demand for such funds was rising quickly and funding was increasingly harder to come by.
I am glad a holistic approach to water is being taken here and that authorities in the individual national states and beyond the borders of the national states are at last obliged to work together and ensure that water is of a high quality.
The seasonal nature of tourism and the employment fluctuations that this entails also deserve attention.
However, the Commission believes that we must go further.
In this context of wholesale change, and in order to prevent our nation States vanishing again, in the wake of globalisation which is creating hitherto unprecedented scales and challenges, Europe needs to be economically strong, because globalisation demands unity, because every day we hear news of new agreements at world level and news of changes at European level too.
Answers are still awaited.
I also call on those few Member States still harbouring reservations to resolve them so that a decision can rapidly be reached on this matter, for the reasons our rapporteur set out earlier when she called for this to be done.
Especially in situations of war, civilians are given less consideration all the time.
Only in this way can we create a new culture in the Commission and at the same time get public confidence restored.
Therefore - in summary - I await, and many of us await, your report, Commissioner Kinnock, so that we can really express our opinion on it, which is the duty of this Parliament.
This was the impression I received when I first became President of the Commission, and it has been confirmed by observation during my daily work.
I have two further points to make on this process.
It should, therefore, not surprise us that water is the cause of wars.
The text we have is the result of the mixture of the institutional set-ups foreseen for judicial cooperation in criminal matters under both the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties respectively.
It may well be easy enough to change the Commission' s organisation chart but it is a different matter when it comes to the legal texts, particularly those relating to budgetary discipline.
In the last programming period 9% of Structural Funds were available for Community initiatives.
On the other hand, we have voted in favour of Recital J which, in fact, is in line with what I, as draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms, proposed to that Committee, with a view to the Intergovernmental Conference.
In this context, in committee we regretted the paltry funding allotted to rural development and supported the amendments calling for an increased budget for this Community initiative so that it matches the previous LEADER I and LEADER II initiatives.
We need to be demanding and ensure that social rights, environmental rights and consumer protection are incorporated into the forthcoming negotiations.
I would, however, like to point out that the Council has plenty of time to formulate its ideas and that it is submitting its proposals to us only a few months before the fateful date.
Furthermore, the Commission adopted an emergency regulation for a recovery plan for Irish Sea cod, effectively calling a halt to cod fishing in the Irish Sea between 14 February and 13 April due to the crisis in the species.
The best way of dealing with this issue is through the draft legislation before Parliament at the moment, as well as the legislation in the pipeline, rather than in this technical document and in circumstances where the questions that are set out and to be debated in Directive 90/220 may not be fully taken into account.
Well, we in Britain are looking to the European Court at the moment.
Let us not forget that elections for local councils and regional parliaments are held so as to represent the entire population.
A more vigorous integration policy should aim at granting them rights and obligations comparable to those of EU citizens' . This is totally contrary to what we have seen and found recently in El Ejido where there are irregularities, labour exploitation and indecent living conditions, which have been condemned in the past.
Unfortunately I do not have time to go into depth on this issue. If Mr MacCormick would be satisfied with my partial agreement with his reasoning, I will give him a full answer in writing by restating the legal bases of both Article 11 in general and Article 11(1) in particular.
Allow me also to say to Mr Bowe that, in common with my Scottish colleague, he need have no pangs of conscience about continuing to enjoy a glass of Scotch whisky now and again.
The postal service is also the bus service.
As intended by the Treaties and the will of the people, the Commission is the driving force of European construction which is like a rock of Sisyphus which we have to push back up to the summit again together after each round of enlargement. We therefore need a strong Commission but one which relies on the support of a parliament.
We should also aim for minimum quantities of heavy metals, as well as of other dangerous substances and materials.
In Europe, after the Amoco Cadiz, or the Urquiola on the Spanish coast, in 1976, or the Torrey Canyon, in the same year, or the many other cases there have been, we really began to legislate after 1994 and 1995, particularly in the last few years.
We have established requirements for the countries which want to join our Union and we must also establish requirements for the countries which we support, because we believe in democracy and its values.
Structural Funds - Cohesion Fund coordination
However, local authorities have repeatedly expressed the view that 'partnership' arrangements under the new CSF for Greece have remained unchanged and are singularly lacking in substance.
The regions affected are outlying ones with an unstable economic balance. They have been profoundly affected by this oil slick which, unfortunately, is not an isolated event.
(Applause)
Madam President, could I furthermore point out that none of the speakers this evening has drawn a link between the Tobin tax on the one hand and the functioning of the European Union on the other?
Mr Seixas da Costa has the floor on behalf of the Council.
As a matter of fact, at the last conference, this issue was raised and discussed on several occasions.
So, yes, appropriations must be released at Community level to support the cleaning of the contaminated coastlines, to assist the organisations which went into action to save oil-covered birds, and to contribute towards getting the affected businesses back on their feet.
We know, for example, that it takes between 150 and 200 years for a tree to reach maturity, so the loss these towns will suffer will not be spread over one, two or five years, but over many more.
We know that some Member States are still wavering, for example, between rail and road for routes through vulnerable areas such as the Pyrenees, as in the Aspe valley.
The idea that heading 7 could be added to in this way and heading 4 left alone, is not workable.
I hope that the Commission and the Council can reach agreement on their respective roles in exercising their right to initiatives and in carrying forward the legislative process itself. As I have told Parliament, the task before us is immense and ambitious, and the Commission needs to have the necessary human resources to respond to this challenge.
I should therefore like to thank you most sincerely for your contribution to the thinking which we are already engaged in with regard to the forthcoming guidelines, as well as for the proper application of the guidelines for the period 2000-2006.
But let us not forget that there is another one, a new handicap, with the single currency.
As such, I would ask you to give OLAF' s work your full support, also in its present form.
There are some minor amendments: Amendment No 2 aims to ensure that the financial contribution to Member States can cover not only the costs of collection of data but also those of its management, compilation, aggregation, etc. Amendments Nos 3 and 6 aim to smooth the timescale given that Member States will have to wait until the implementing regulation is in place to know what the programmes actually involve; and also to bring the timescale into line with the dates and the regulation.
A break in continuity will have serious consequences for the programme and certainly a disruptive effect on voluntary and professional workers.
It also remains to be seen whether the European Union has learnt any lessons from the bad experiences in Bosnia when it comes to providing aid and the slightly better experiences in Kosovo.
Never before in history has humanitarian right been so well developed.
After all, the treaties have stipulated since 1992 that the precautionary principle and environmental protection should be integrated into Community policies.
What criteria will the Commission use to approve or reject the Member States' programmes?
I should like to make one further point before I conclude: we should insist where this money is being allocated and where this programme is being developed that it be done in the context of a serious URBAN development policy.
When I think that I have to explain your work programme week in, week out to my constituents, not in the rarefied atmosphere of this House, but on the street, then I ask myself, what can I say?
And, when I say that the Commission took that view, I include my dear colleague Franz Fischler, who is from Austria; and who, once again, demonstrated his integrity and his independence as a Member of the European Commission, under oath, in being part of that statement that we made yesterday morning.
Then we will have the opportunity to comment on these replies and to express our concerns to the Commission as well.
Administration-wise there are now 34 tax inspectors.
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
The cost is not insurmountable; nor is the task an impossible one.
Yes, a lot of things were lost by the Socialists but they have not been won in plenary yet, and may I warn him that may not be the case tomorrow.
In its communication "Women and Science" , the European Commission informs us of its good intentions of enlisting the support of women to enrich research in Europe.
We believe that if legal protection of the euro is to be credible, we must avoid having a multiplicity of instruments, and we should accordingly make a combined effort in March to approve a single instrument covering all necessary aspects, including those featuring in initiatives already presented by France and those whose adoption the Commission itself has called for.
The Europe of Schengen clearly finds it much easier to hound the persecuted from the south than dictators, even though the UN estimates that we will need 159 million immigrants to maintain a stable population between now and the year 2025.
I repeat that a change in the politics of the Middle East will require a gear change in the support that we shall be asked and expected to provide. I hope I can add that we will want to provide that.
From this vantage point, there is every reason for the government to formulate stimulating measures and a stimulating policy.
We Socialists applaud the Commission for wanting to fight against social exclusion and poverty.
It is vital that this money is used to benefit the poorest groups and individuals within the ACP countries.
Twenty million tonnes of unwanted catches are being thrown back.
I would like to assure you of my personal commitment and of that of the Commission, as stated once again by President Prodi this morning, to doing everything to ensure that we do not have to apply the mechanism stated in Article 7.
These days, someone who lives in an old people' s home is accommodated within the social field.
What other explanation could there be for omitting women?
Mr President it is later than any of us thought it would be when we were planning for this session so I shall be very brief indeed.
In order to reach and even overtake the leading position of the United States of America, we must avoid interventionism, as proposed initially by Mr Katiforis, and also excessive intervention by the public authorities in the construction of certain infrastructures.
This mission is being conducted under the auspices of the United Nations and we cannot have a situation where the European Union is the only one to fulfil its obligations.
I believe EU consumers will support those car manufacturers that incorporate the most environmentally-friendly practices in the coming year.
This CIP has encouraged the development of best practice models in the economic, social and environmental sectors.
In its resolution, this Parliament stated that discharge could not be granted until we had received serious, far-reaching proposals for reform from the new European Commission.
Furthermore, it will be evident that this is a matter that does not only affect Turkey, in view of that country' s proximity to the existing territory of the European Union. It also affects other states neighbouring the EU with which we maintain relations.
There is one relatively small area of activity with enormous public visibility which would be a litmus test of the Union' s ability to match words with action.
At the moment, our control system is completely centralised; with the reform we will switch to a control system which combines decentralisation of management control with an efficient central audit system.
There is nothing therefore that is open-ended or vague about the report which I have had the honour to compile.
Member States are urged to attach greater importance to integrated strategies for revitalising relations between towns and rural areas.
The previous speaker already said something about this.
Some speakers wanted it to be less bureaucratic, more transparent, and to avoid redundancy in terms of the projects and funding.
The key issue regarding the first proposal, however, is Parliament' s amendment which allows the use of over-the-counter instruments for general investment purposes.
The denominations of the euro are well known.
Men have never wished to surrender positions of power when they had them, but there are also very few women who have been willing to give up their positions of power, and I am thinking here, in particular, of positions of power in relation to children.
As we have heard, the objective of URBAN is the promotion of innovative strategies to promote economic and social regeneration in urban areas, bearing in mind that 80% of the population of Europe lives in cities.
This is why the Commission resolved on raising a complaint against these two banks at its last meeting, and I hope that Parliament approves this step.
As long as Milosevic is still there and Serbia is not pursuing a democratic path, Serbia constitutes a constant threat to peace throughout the Balkans, including in Macedonia.
There is nothing natural about these recurring disasters, they are the result of fate.
Today - and I must say this with pride and satisfaction - this Parliament has had a good opportunity to demonstrate the extent to which we Europeans believe that the European political project is much more than just an internal market, and that it is based much more on principles than on economic interests.
They are trading this in for a head of government' s position and for membership of a government.
We all know that!
Neither can we tolerate a situation in which a public body holds the copyright to public documents.
I am referring to the position the Austrian Government will adopt at the Council with regard to the Commission' s proposals for the establishment of an action programme to combat discrimination and for two directives.
If postal services are liberalised in a poorly regulated way, more post offices will be closed, in the name of this infamous profitability, which is often the cause of rural regression.
This is why ICCAT recommended this closed zone in the Adriatic and toughened the conditions for catching zero-age fish.
But we must also play a political role and Mr Moratinos cannot play that role in this region on his own; the Presidency of the Council must take action, the EU High Representative for common foreign and security policy must travel to the region and we must do as the Russians did and invite the protagonists of the peace process ourselves.
Do not misunderstand me: I too believe that we need to take effective action against the Milosevic regime.
This issue can no longer be ignored by Parliament, the Council or the Commission.
We should not find ourselves late in the day in the unfortunate position where the one or other institution creates an unnecessary fracture in institutional relationships.
What should we do with the shredded products?
Thank you, Mr Medina Ortega.
Both I and other MEPs utterly reject such a drastic change of system.
The third and fourth worlds have been abandoned: just one dollar, one and a half euro would be enough to save a great many children.
. (PT) Food safety issues are in the spotlight following the BSE and dioxin scandals.
Madam President, the Socialist Group proposes the following oral amendment.
Will the Commission consider issuing instructions to all Member States saying that, if in future it discovers that European environmental directives have been breached or proper environmental assessment has not been carried out, it will not only stop future funding but will withdraw the funding already granted, in other words, reclaim the money from the Member States?
It is as simple as that.
If Amendment No 45 does not fall, I will have to move an oral amendment tomorrow to ensure that Member States may grant exemptions to the provisions of this article in order to allow a basic level of water use for domestic purposes before contributions to the recovery of cost of water services.
That the Right opposes taxes is quite understandable, except that they should never have been allowed to spirit their millions, or rather billions, into Switzerland.
We are obliged to do so because we are the representatives of the citizens in a Europe of Citizens and not just in a Europe of States and of Regions.
That should be the subject of another report and we will have to carry one out and consider that issue, but not in this report.
That way, we will create a climate of cooperation which will be positive for the quality of the reforms.
In this regard, Madam President, I would like to say that we should remain aware and watch our language.
In France it has had enormous resonance, particularly when linked to a demand to use the proceeds to help the Third World out of its debt and poverty.
An association agreement has been signed and a joint parliamentary committee has been set up by the European Parliament and the Czech Parliament.
The Commission also agrees with Amendment No 11, except for the proposed period of previous employment of only three months, as I explained just now.
The issue of eliminating hazardous substances ought, I think, to be made more realistic so that we can achieve it.
However, this contradicts the stated aim of the general objectives for decentralised action plans at the level of local authorities and rural areas. However, at the same time, participation by those actually discriminated against, such as asylum seekers, immigrants and so on, is rendered impossible or merely symbolic.
They need a political deal.
I conclude by referring to paragraph 15 of the resolution before the House relating to the resource requirements of our policies for change.
We are to get the agendas.
If we think of how the process was looking a year ago, the difference between then and now is like that between night and day, despite difficulties and delays.
Madam President, President of the Commission, President-in-Office of the Council, the Group of the Party of European Socialists hopes that this debate will send three messages to the European public.
In my opinion, these contradictions are not all that serious in terms of Community policies. They are, if anything, more serious as regards certain objectives and industries in some Member States.
The Portuguese Presidency made reaching an agreement on this statute one of its priorities, as furthermore, did the President of the European Parliament, when she stated this at the Helsinki European Council.
Moreover, the von Wogau report, which the European Parliament has just voted on, supports it in so doing.
One of the reasons why we were very keen to bring this forward was because, whether we like it or not, the European Union has a reputation for fraud and mismanagement. It is sometimes exaggerated but there it is.
Commissioner, it is impossible to overstate the importance of this reform.
My investigations also unfortunately suggest that this could be the case.
You say that you will not hesitate to come to this House to request more resources for the Commission, but the Commission must be aware that we are walking on thin financial ice.
Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission understands the anxiety expressed by a number of you with regard to the scope of the conference agenda.
Thus, Mr President, I ask my fellow Members to approve this report and I ask the Commission, as other speakers have done, to take good note of the conclusions of their sixth periodic report when they address the programming for the period 2000-2006.
The INTERREG initiative, created in 1990, is built upon the wish to make the regions of Europe ready for a 'Europe without frontiers' in the context of establishing the great single market.
Next we have the Puritan shift: the Teutonic Europe of the North, the Europe of the Lutherans, Calvinists and Quakers, wishes to inflict its moral order on us.
This is a pity, in a sense.
You have, Mr Solana, heard the force of the criticisms made by the Members of Parliament who do not accept the appalling situations in Kosovo, Chechnya and elsewhere.
Just three months ago I took the floor in this House to congratulate the Irish and British people on their success in reaching the Northern Ireland settlement, as many other colleagues did.
Commissioner, this morning President Prodi, among others, stressed that the Balkans are testing our ability to act effectively, the very credibility of the European Union is on trial, and the gap between words and deeds must finally be closed.
Water is also one of the issues to which I shall be devoting particular attention during my term of office.
The current globalisation process is - and I quote - 'exclusive rather than inclusive and has widened the inequalities' . The European Union' s objective must therefore be to help define new ground rules within the Union and in international relations.
Another is for the Union itself to sign up to the European Convention.
I can confirm that it is Commissioner Bolkestein' s firm intention to present a proposal to the Commission by the middle of the year, to be forwarded to Parliament and the Council.
This has an impact of course, because it is read by other members of the Council.
So to is the cooperation of FYROM in the rebuilding of Kosovo.
But early reports suggest that the poisoning of the Lepos, Tisza, Somes and Danube Rivers is a very serious environmental tragedy.
Russia' s new strong man, however, added a rather puzzling comment to this welcome declaration: 'As far as I am aware, Mr Babitsky already feels free.'
I think that the European Parliament is doing itself absolutely no favours by thinking only in terms of old categories and churning out old political concepts and visions.
In other cases these operations were launched and implemented with less care and concern for those affected.
What are the Council's views on the substance of the Charter? What type of rights will the Charter set out (economic, social and cultural)?
I am absolutely certain that this code will be observed and that Parliament will keep abreast of all the developments and details concerning the implementation of the programmes.
The company went under despite this.
How is Article 1 to be interpreted and explained in your view, as this will have important implications, notably for the accession negotiations and for our country, which shares common borders with so many applicant countries?
I am of the opinion - and luckily I am not alone in this - that the principle of policy coherence is essential to every government which aims to be a credible servant of its citizens.
The last area I want to mention is convergence of civil and criminal justice systems.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
We ask for a guarantee that the decision-making bodies for the projects are represented equally by three elements: political representatives and public administrations, companies and economic operators, and social operators, including unions and non-governmental organisations.
Madam President, as a member of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and also as an MEP for the Basque Nationalist Party, I must firstly categorically condemn the cowardly attack which took the lives of a Basque police officer, Jorge Díez Elorza, and the Basque MP and former vice-president, Fernando Buesa.
Are we going to have nothing more to report than the fact that we are still stuck in a mould of old political contradictions?
European competition policy, as we very often forget, is not just important for fair competition as such, but also for prices, growth and employment, and hence for the public.
For us this is straightforward: in the case of new vehicles it should be the manufacturer since this will also compel manufacturers to design and build recyclable cars.
The efforts to coordinate the planning and so make it more effective must extend to all the programmes equally, and I say that because in the MEDA programme during the last period some problems arose which have to be overcome, so that we can have equal treatment for all the third countries participating in that programme.
In this House, in the past, large-scale debates have taken place on major strategic options which the Commission, under its power of initiative, launched, not as experiments, but as proposals which then made varying degrees of progress, but in any case did contribute to the integration and development of the European Union.
It has been shown, as we have been claiming since 1995, that this move is appalling, and, if Portugal and France wish to reach an agreement, that is fine by us, but these anchovies should be fished in Portuguese fishing grounds and not in the Bay of Biscay.
Since no one wishes to speak, I shall put this proposal to the vote.
Meanwhile, on the trade side, pressure from the WTO to ensure that any Lomé Convention is WTO-compatible has meant that there is a huge momentum behind the idea of the so-called regional economic partnership arrangements or free-trade agreements.
We shall therefore vote cautiously on all amendments limiting recourse to excessively derivative instruments and we shall vote in favour of all amendments which limit the excessive concentration of assets within a single financial group.
This is not an attempt to either censor or go against the very real and justifiable principle that we should have a statute for assistants.
There would then be no question of Cyprus acceding to the Union.
In Kosovo, it was for humanitarian reasons that we systematically destroyed all the civilian infrastructure in Serbia.
Also the following points are unacceptable for us: joint investigation teams, controlled deliveries, undercover investigations, inaccuracy of the text on the scope of the convention, lack of respect of the principle of proportionality, lack of democratic guarantees.
Turkey's nuclear plans ? which ignore the risks to the population and ecosystems of Turkey and the surrounding region ? prompt the suspicion that there are underlying plans previously determined by Turkey's political and military leaders to acquire nuclear technology enabling them to build nuclear weapons, as evidenced by their attempts to buy reactors of Canadian origin of the type acquired by India and Pakistan.
Despite the commitment they have shown to the company and despite their high level of professionalism - which has made the Cisterna plant one of the most productive in Europe - these workers are likely to be removed from the production cycle, while Goodyear, after years of benefiting from state and European subsidies, is totally free to walk out.
Inevitably, that will mean identifying activities that could and should be reduced or ended.
Mr President, I think we all agree that a European legal area must be created.
I also rely not only on the cooperation of the Members of the European Parliament, but also on the cooperation of non-governmental organisations, which have always made an important contribution to the anti-discrimination policy of the Commission.
Madam President, I too have found parts of the debate quite bizarre.
We must take the best from each of our countries.
This will oblige us to reconsider the registers in the European Union, and to deal with the notorious problem, which will no doubt arise again, of the aim of a Community register.
Firstly, decisions on corporate restructuring remain the prerogative as well as the responsibility of management.
The climax of the chain of events was my undertaking to reform the Commission, to reform it thoroughly, completely revolutionising the Commission' s way of working.
The concerns of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as articulated in its position, together with those of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, will also be taken full account of in this process.
Is it the case that these countries can boast of what is termed in English 'good governance' ?
First, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia should be offered a customs tariff equal to zero for their exports to the European Union and compensation for the progressive reduction of customs duties applied by Macedonia to European products, on condition that the principle of joint customs control at the frontiers of Macedonia is accepted.
I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to observe one minute' s silence in memory of Fernando Buesa Blanco and Jorge Díez Elorza.
Mr Florenz asks whether Parliament will have a say in that.
If I may make a suggestion, Commissioner Barnier, would it be possible for the communication to say something more on this subject, in addition to the straightforward and slightly clinical phrase which indicates that it will be carried out in conjunction with the European Parliament?
On this subject, any improvement in bringing the concept of equal opportunities to bear in everyday reality is indeed desirable, and I can only welcome the implementation of a policy which would contribute towards satisfying the legitimate aspirations of women: to enjoy equal access to scientific study, to obtain positions of responsibility truly in line with their results and competence, and to have accompanying measures drawn up rapidly, enabling them to reconcile their family life and their career.
The planned introduction of Eurojust is one of our significant successes from Tampere and must now be implemented forthwith.
The next item is the report (A5-0001/2000) by Mr van Hulten, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on action to be taken on the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts on reform of the Commission.
The treatment of the Native Americans in many respects flies in the face of the most fundamental human rights.
We must therefore have many more women in work, and working in the new jobs in which the EU has a shortfall.
Mr President, before I came here for today' s sitting, I was watching Finnish television.
The continuing torrential rains throughout the southern African region aggravated by the Cyclone Eline have led to the displacement of large numbers of people and there has been considerable damage to housing and infrastructure.
We have no difficulty with the "polluter pays" principle in relation to the recovery of costs on water usage at industrial, commercial and agricultural level.
It is also an important step towards European natural justice. This will be built on mutual confidence between the Member States and their respective legal systems and on the confidence of the European people in any European court.
In this respect we are also working closely and positively with the Commission.
I therefore am not able to accept Amendment No 4.
Finally, intervention by the European Union to solve the problem of FYROM' s name - which is unfortunately becoming a long drawn out problem and could make an already tense situation even more fraught - and to respond more energetically towards negotiating FYROM' s principles within a reasonable time scale, is necessary and useful.
Mr President, I would like, in beginning my speech regarding the White Paper, to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr von Wogau.
As long as we do not have a balance between the military and the civilian elements, we shall not be credible.
Inevitably, we should like, for the same reasons of power politics, to be allowed to have this debate more or less to ourselves.
In my opinion, this second hypothesis would imply the failure of Parliament in its duty as a Parliament, as well as introducing an original thesis, an unknown method which consists of making political groups aware, in writing, of a speech concerning the Commission' s programme a week earlier - and not a day earlier, as had been agreed - bearing in mind that the legislative programme will be discussed in February, so we could forego the debate, since on the next day our citizens will hear about it in the press and on the Internet and Parliament will no longer have to worry about it.
They were treated like the worst criminals.
In the Commission guidelines, few maritime areas are eligible for INTERREG IIIA. The amendments to the Decourrière report aim to make INTERREG more maritime-oriented.
I believe this is the first debate in this House with the new Commission and a new Commissioner, Mr Liikanen, who is of course listening very closely to what we are discussing.
With these forecasts of the structural policy - which I know very well - and the forecasts of LEADER and rural development, we will not promote, as we should, employment amongst women in the severely less-favoured regions.
A company is pilloried one day and not the next.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30a.m.
There are different types of agreements or relations or lack of relations - going even as far as the embargo on Yugoslavia - which result in a fragmented and ineffectual approach.
The EU really deserves such a gesture, but differences between rich and poor areas within countries are still too great.
And, I am sure that we will also mention it explicitly when we work with this principle.
We already plan to reform the existing disciplinary procedures to ensure thoroughness, fairness, consistency and professionalism.
Although there has been some slippage, I trust that the remaining Israeli troop redeployments will materialise soon.
That is why I will only believe that there is any point to having this debate today if what we are all saying today, and what the Commissioner has announced here, actually leads to legislation being produced; in other words, if you all go and say to your Heads of Government and Ministers: "you must push this through in the Council of Ministers" .
Then the war came, and the observers were withdrawn.
In any event, I have taken note of your wish to see the following points included in the report: the definition, compilation and analysis of representative indicators for the region and for all the countries of Central and Eastern Europe; a chapter on the islands and most remote regions which several of you mentioned, particularly Mrs Sudre and Mr Fruteau; analyses on the competitiveness of the regions in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. This will constitute a great challenge to us all, for you and for the Commission, in the next few years.
Such an attitude has downside risks which I understand the ECOFIN Council is currently discussing.
The Commission has, however, made it clear that it intends itself to engage in studies and pilot projects of a wider environmental kind.
I consider this to be very encouraging news.
My delegation of 37 Conservative and Unionist Members from the United Kingdom reject absolutely the underlying philosophy, programme and tone of Austria' s Freedom Party.
We can see in the incumbent operators, in public post offices, a change of culture that I believe nobody can consider negative if the current trend towards concentrating on customers' needs continues.
We must live with our consciences."
Andersson report (A5-0033/2000)
I am grateful to the honourable Member for underlining the fact that, apart from its own inherent merits, reform will be made necessary by accession, the enlargements, and particularly the kind of enlargements that our Union will shortly be engaging in.
I call on the Commission to act on the rapid accession of East Timor to the Lomé Convention as one means, amongst others, of promoting the eradication of poverty and accelerating its economic, cultural and social development, in order to strengthen its internal democratisation.
Of course there is also the Charter of Fundamental Rights, and work began on its wording yesterday, which I believe has started very positively.
That is the appropriate way of dealing with this.
I wish to stress how important it is for us to remain free of disease.
This is why it is so hard to strike a balance, not only between the different countries or the different components, but especially between the different groups listed in the programme, and in fact this is what has preoccupied us to date.
I should like to stress that the EQUAL initiative satisfies national requirements and national plans defined in accordance with agreed European strategy.
Measured by this yardstick there are a number of serious shortcomings in the new arrangements. For example, the agreement is particularly disappointing for those ACP countries suffering from short-term fluctuations in export earnings.
The Commission needs to carry out internal organisational changes, strengthen the coherence and effectiveness of its actions, ideally with a properly resourced central mine action policy cell.
I share his impatience to secure the full implementation of the mechanisms of reform and change practices.
Madam President, I would like to comment on the Florenz report.
Why should we wish to change a system which is satisfactory?
These are the challenges that we - the Commission but also all the other European institutions - are facing.
It should nevertheless be noted that we have just concluded the Treaty of Amsterdam, which was approved last May, and that there is a raft of implementing measures on transparency which are still in progress.
We will cut back our time a little because the interpreters are working today in continuous session.
There is a directive dating from 1995 on this subject.
They see us restricting each other's liberties.
Secondly, by adopting this directive we achieve a) an increase in safety when dangerous goods are both transported and transhipped; b) a reduction in distortions of competition resulting from wide variations in national training structures and training costs and c) equal opportunities for safety advisers on the European labour market.
We explicitly address corruption; we establish a framework for dealing with the problem of immigration for the first time ever.
Anyone who has been in an old car knows that this is to the detriment of the consumer and the amateur mechanic.
The UEN Group is all the more in favour of sending this signal to the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia because it leaves plenty of room for the independence and sovereignty of the states. A satisfactory solution cannot be found in the Balkans without a strong policy of cooperation between the states concerned; but nor can there be any question of blocking their process of integration because one of them is considered unworthy of such promotion.
The new legal framework will cover animal feed, animal health and welfare, hygiene, contaminants and residues, novel food, additives, flavourings, packaging and irradiation.
Therefore I am putting forward these amendments to Parliament to give its support to the contributions of this type of programme.
We must do this for the sake of the environment.
I think that this work has been carried out extremely well.
Mr President, I regret the absence of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council. This is a Council declaration, and I believe that it would perhaps have been useful for them to have been present for the rest of the debate.
Madam President, in the earlier vote - and I will abide by your ruling on this matter - on the question of the strategic plan of the Commission I indicated that I would like to speak in advance of the vote on behalf of my Group.
We should not make reality out to be more rose-tinted than it really is.
It is better to have quality projects with the active participation of community groups than to have projects delivered on time but without local participation.
This is how matters stand with regard to MEDA: Malta and Cyprus can take part in the national programmes, but not in the country-specific ones, because the incomes are too high.
It is clear that, for once, the United States has not been able to secure progress on the restarting of these negotiations, and it is true that the obstacles are difficult to overcome: the Syrians wish to regain sovereignty and jurisdiction over the Golan Heights and re-establish the borders which existed before 4 June 1967, while the Israelis wish, since they consider that it suits their situation better, to have the borders which were set in 1923.
After nearly 10 years, Greece continues to prevent this country being called by its own name, and I hope the interpreters have not used the term FYROM when I have been saying Macedonia.
... and that includes their representatives in this Parliament.
We are at last holding it and cannot let this opportunity slip through our fingers.
External stability also means open borders and regional cooperation.
You realise that making a success of this dialogue means work for everyone concerned.
We fall back on a kind of ersatz army based on humanitarian rights, a kind of army in the service of vague ideas, of an ideal, the dangers of which have many times been shown in history.
We can improve on this by punishing crime in Europe quickly, and this must be done at European level.
If the Commission actually did have convincing evidence in support of taking liberalisation forwards, no one doubts that it would present it without delay.
Within the third CSF, this principle must specifically lead to the participation of all these partners in the monitoring committee.
I do not have these concerns.
This can be clearly seen in the regulation before us.
I condemn Jörg Haider' s racist and xenophobic policy.
The CEO of the authority would be somebody who typically would be known, who might appear regularly on television talking about issues relating to food, particularly in relation to the good news stories surrounding food in relation to nutrition, diet and such issues, so that if another food crisis comes along consumers will be aware of the existence of the authority.
I would, therefore, ask the Commissioner to ensure that a balance is struck between these different groups.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
The European Community' s prime role is to ensure a framework which enables and encourages stakeholders and authorities at all levels to optimise and realise the tourism sector' s potential for growth and employment.
Over-exploitation is so severe in Community fisheries that the scientific authorities have recommended rapid reductions of the exploitation levels of up to 40 percent.
The Commission would only receive a copy of any such transmissions if it requested one.
This is why we are drawing up a Charter of Fundamental Rights which will more widely and more clearly protect our citizens on an individual basis. This is why we have Article 13 of the EC Treaty on discrimination which we proposed, in our opinion of 26 January even before the Austrian crisis, should be applied after the IGC by qualified majority rather than by unanimity.
We have just heard Commissioner Barnier say that he is anxious to communicate better with the people and to aim the information policy of the Commission towards the major issues that the Community is dealing with this year.
They have all been persuaded!
In view of all this, I think it is a serious contradiction that there is no European policy on tourism.
This Convention should be our guide in working for the clean environment which we owe to ourselves and, not least, to our descendants.
Finally, as far as the technical requirements for ships are concerned, some Members have already mentioned just now that, since 1999 in the United States, ships should in any case be double-hulled.
As far as possible, we are also providing or trying to provide solutions to any humanitarian crises and public order crises such as those which are currently unfortunately occurring in Kosovo and the Balkans.
It is now a natural consequence to move on to social security systems.
This country is afraid it will be in a sense sidelined.
Water is often a source of conflict between countries and peoples.
Here improvements should be made.
Recently, because of political developments in Austria, there is growing unease within Europe. Political demonstrations are taking place as well as political dialogue.
They are a zootechnical product which is not totally necessary.
Whilst the communication reveals the Commission' s worthy intentions in this field, it is also revealing as to what activity is lacking and where management and control improvements can be made.
That is important.
And I refer once again to the declarations which we have heard in recent days.
He tells the story of a Serbian doctor who has just been murdered in Pristina.
I have yet to submit my report on TSEs to the House.
But we will only have the right to formally challenge the Commission if we think it has gone beyond the delegation that we have given to the Commission in the legislation.
The guarantees which companies must be given are currently under discussion.
River waters must also be used more effectively so as to preserve life in areas that suffer chronic drought.
In so far as tourism falls within the political domain, it should be at national, regional and local level.
I say: shame on them!
I have evidence that this is possible.
It is clearly a dilemma with which the rapporteur has also struggled.
We think that this picture of ours is confirmed by the examination carried out by the Court of Auditors.
We say that we want to protect human rights.
I say now, as I have said on numerous occasions in the past: yes, I too would like the Commission to propose a positive list which we can then debate and deal with in this House, but we do at least need a starting point for a positive list of additives in feedingstuffs.
Unfortunately, this is not the case and currently, by merging the start of the application of the European directive and the application of the 35-hour law, which is purely French, but also by changing the working time criteria, such as the 1 700 objects per hour to be handled per workstation as opposed to 1 400, as previously, in our rural areas we can observe either a reduction in public opening hours or a threat that some post offices will be closed.
Consequently, the post office and its equivalents in the various countries of Europe must keep their monopoly of this service.
So far, however, the European institutions have not had sufficient means at their disposal to take vigorous action here, to ensure that implementation actually takes place and that matters are remedied.
Nevertheless I have the gravest doubts about the legitimacy of Nato's action against Yugoslavia over Kosovo, both in terms of the lack of authority from the UN Security Council and because it could have been avoided by not imposing unacceptable terms on Serbia's sovereignty at Rambouillet.
That cannot continue.
One of the reasons why we are late is because we spent time earlier today rightly stating the rooted opposition of this Parliament to any form of xenophobia or racism.
The European Union is a contracting party and is obliged to embody such recommendations in Community law.
Well, the Structural Funds have helped to apply a brake to this process.
Mr Prodi has pointed out that he would like to give up a few of his responsibilities.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for the information of the House, Mr President, I should like to make a clarification.
In recent years, the transportation of dangerous goods nationally and internationally has increased considerably, increasing the risk of accidents.
Since I more or less share the views of my colleague, Mr Sjöstedt and the representative of the Greens, Mr de Roo, I am not going to use the two minutes allotted to me, and I will highlight just two issues.
We wish to see an end to this one-sided situation regarding requests for financial aid.
LIFE' s contribution to sustainable development within the Community and also to the development of Community policy in the field of the environment, particularly regarding the integration of the environment into other policies, as well as to the implementation and updating of legislation relating to the environment;
On the other hand, what does this statement tell us about principles?
Mr President, I want to refer to the Commission proposals on the budget line to promote the CAP.
For this reason, we are reforming the administrative machinery in order to create the necessary conditions for us to be able to carry out our work efficiently.
Correct translation is vital in this subject as it involves very precise legal concepts.
The next item is the report (A5-0023/2000) by Mr Böge, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Council Directive 91/68/EC as regards scrapie (COM(1998) 623 - C4-0026/1999 - 1998/0324(COD)).
Minorities and majorities need to be given room for human and cultural exchange.
Mr President, in a world such as this, which is increasingly dominated by the phenomenon of globalisation, and not only in the economic field, our responses, in order to be effective, must be concerted and coordinated.
Well, that depends on who the legislators are.
This White Paper is a response to the challenges that enlargement is forcing on us, an enlargement that is forcing us to rethink the workings of all our institutions, rethink our very policies - all our policies - and above all rethink what we must continue to do at Union level when the Member States number 25 or 30, and what will be the best thing to do at individual State level, at regional level and at local government level.
Unfortunately, it does not give the impression of being a real political strategy on the part of the Commission.
Perhaps, in order to strengthen the Union' s democracy, it would now be appropriate to isolate Austria and criminalise a party that was democratically elected by the Austrian citizens, while bringing Turkey and its "Grey Wolves" into Europe.
We asked the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which pointed out that, as far as approximating laws is concerned, Article 37 is adequate in this case.
We may therefore stand a better chance of making progress there.
Mr President, this is an extremely bad directive.
Why does Parliament not meet in all the countries of the European Union and show that it rejects terrorism?
I cannot accept this.
Indeed, it was not until 2001 that some of the key elements of appraisal were going to be introduced.
The Communication from the Commission takes account of the need to adopt approaches combining a range of economic, social, and infrastructural measures.
Unfortunately, however, it has highlighted the difficulties rather than proposing solutions.
But even with a tailor-made derivative or OTC derivative which would be cheaper, perhaps insuring you against a relative fall in your portfolio against the index, you would still have the portfolio and the shares, but you would have protected yourself against the risks of a collapse.
If we cut down here and say that the Council now shares responsibility for this, then I fear that these human rights issues will not be given the attention they deserve.
Thirdly, referring to the earlier discussion on the collection of fisheries data, I very much hope that the Commission will engage in projects and studies looking at aquaculture in the environmental context but I believe that is the way forward in relation to the environment, not the way that is suggested in Amendments 7 to 13, and I hope honourable Members will reject them.
We are therefore faced with two options. We can either return the proposals to the Commission for the latter to present a harmonised text or we can continue the current process.
Subject: Surplus electrical and electronic equipment Each year the European Union has to deal with a growing volume of surplus electrical and electronic equipment (6 million tonnes' worth in 1998), mainly on account of the speed with which such equipment becomes obsolescent.
I know that my colleagues and I can count on the support of many Members of this House across the spectrum.
This claim that your report makes must be seen in the context of last spring' s negotiations.
I do not know whether this information is correct, but the PPE-DE Group would, in any case, be grateful if this item were removed because Parliament has addressed this issue several times already.
It is no secret that I would have much preferred Mr Schmidt' s report not to have been altered so much as it passed through Parliament.
I cannot think of a better way to do it.
If we do not obtain a framework of Community regulations which is sufficiently clear, strict and trenchant, then those Member States that wish to do so must be allowed to take the necessary steps to protect their people and their territory, in the same way that the United States succeeded in learning the lessons of the Exxon Valdez disaster by making double hulls compulsory and banning all vessels more than 20 years old from their waters.
It was not only immigrants who were the victims of atrocities; the democratic system in Spain has been held up to ridicule, despite having demonstrated its tremendous capacity to evolve over the last 20 years.
The resolution contains many excellent ideas for the promotion of different types of tourism and for its increasing professionalism.
Mr Corbett referred to that, but the new model is certainly much more complex, different because the situation is now different, and, in our opinion, much more coherent.
That is a reduction of 3¾ % compared with the previous CIs.
It sets in stone one particular model of recycling.
Nevertheless the Conservatives voted against this in the committee.
We are all aware of the difficulties, and particularly the financial difficulties, that Mr Kouchner is facing in setting up this administrative machinery, and, in particular, we are aware of the special difficulty involved in recruiting police so as to ensure day-to-day public safety.
The Presidency will also concentrate on discussions about creating a digital television system in Europe, which will be the subject of a conference that we shall be organising during the Portuguese Presidency, in conjunction with the Commission, in February 2000.
I understand that there is no argument about the fact that the Council declaration, on the next sitting of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, is not going to include the declaration on the 50th anniversary of the Geneva Conventions, and that this declaration has been proposed for the plenary part-session in March, so that it may be delivered in a solemn and formal way.
But, Commissioner, none of this is to become less complicated in future - one only has to think of the challenges posed by the enlargement of the Union, the deepening of the internal market, technological progress, globalisation.
It is therefore crucially important that the Chamber should be as emphatic as it possibly can be in establishing the fact that all refugees are to have a place on the EQUAL programme.
. (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to your comments very carefully, and in particular to the rather emotional comments about Cyprus, especially in defence of the present legal situation in Cyprus, which the European Union specifically acknowledges by recognising the relevant resolutions of the United Nations Security Council.
The process does not require a chemical sewage plant.
So I want to put this question to you. When human health is at stake, or there is the possibility that human health will be seriously affected, should we not perhaps carry out a cost-benefit analysis?
The resolution makes no clear reference to respect for the Member States' national identities and constitutional traditions in accordance with Article 6 of the Treaty.
As you know, at the 55th session of the Human Rights Commission held last year, the United States decided, at a very late stage, to table a draft resolution on China.
A crucial point is that rules are proposed for so-called simplified prospectuses.
They see us killing each other.
But, otherwise, we must all of us, as taxpayers or citizens, foot the bill. What is more, the costs will be higher the longer we wait before taking action.
President Duisenberg even attempted to attribute the weakness, the entirely relative weakness of the euro in relation to the dollar to this state interventionism.
It is, therefore, regrettable that these peace talks have been suspended for the time being.
These days, the complete dismantling of end-of-life vehicles is economically viable.
This does not follow automatically: often in the past a great deal of wealth has been accumulated thanks to the promotion of the tourist industry, without this being matched by an increase in employment.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0003/2000). We will examine questions to the Council.
It was only last year that the Treaty was amended to give Parliament a much greater role in the legislative process.
Add to this the fact that the agricultural sector accounts for 34% of the developing countries' gross national product, compared with 5.3% in the EU.
I know that this is somewhat controversial, particularly, because of the attitude of the United States Government towards the Castro regime.
We are also under an obligation to help because of another fact, the fact that Mozambique is one of the few African countries to have used democratic means to recover from the bloody civil war by which it was consumed for several years after it gained independence.
What I would like to know is what will happen to the draft Charter that the Convention draws up?
I would nonetheless like, as others have done, to touch upon the procedure, which is unclear and, above all, unwanted.
(Limited applause)
The Commission will be called upon, in a report that has yet to be compiled for the year 1999, to give a detailed explanation of its active role in the elaboration of restructuring plans and approved exemptions, thus enabling a proper assessment of the overall situation to be made.
For the cars currently on the road, it would be reasonable to share the cost, for example by setting up a fund such as that in the Netherlands.
The Commission' s communication is an important strategic document for bringing about European social convergence.
This is connected to what Mr Van Velzen was just saying, about the difference between words and deeds.
If we have success in this threefold sense, I believe that these families, these people, these European citizens, will believe more in Europe, and this seems to me to be very important because, ultimately, the cities will increasingly come to play a leading role in European life.
That is why a ceiling needs to be set for administrative expenditure.
We will be looking at the extent to which we can create an equilateral policy triangle combining economic policy, employment policy and social policy.
Mr Patten has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
I refer to Eurodac.
Mr President, I asked Commissioner Verheugen a specific question about the financing instrument MEDA but he has not provided an answer.
In addition to national programmes, the European Union has supported important regional actions in the energy, transport and environmental sectors.
Much like in the Netherlands, where, at a given point, women woke up to the fact that, by referring to European legislation, they could improve their status in terms of social security, this is now also the case for scores of other citizens.
Cars are also part of our cultural heritage. I think we would all agree on that.
Why are there no fire instructions?
We are dissatisfied with the fact that those figures seem to have been in some way hidden within UK figures.
Mr President in office, ladies and gentlemen, I have great honour in extending a warm welcome, on behalf of the House, to the President of the Czech Republic, Mr Vaclav Havel.
But he would recognise that, as for everybody else, we have to consider his particular proposals and subject them to rigorous examination. That is something that has been done by our rapporteur on the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs, Mr von Wogau.
You have answered the questions precisely and also opened the dialogue for Europe that you referred to.
However, Africa is surprisingly not included in the DIPECHO plans.
One attempts to ensure that the data sought are no more detailed than necessary to serve the objective being pursued.
Will you confirm what is the case?
Report (A5-0073/1999) by Mr Langen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission Report on the implementation in 1998 of Commission Decision No 2496/96/ECSC of 18 December 1996 establishing Community rules for State aid to the steel industry (Steel Aid Code) (COM(1999)94 - C5-0104/1999 - 1999/2107(COS))
It is never easy working on comitology.
Subject: Gender and environment Practically all the contributors involved in the Rio and Kyoto processes - individual organisations, civic action groups, governments, the World Bank, the UN and relief organisations - believed that women should take a greater part in decision-making on the environment.
The polluter ought to pay.
That concludes Questions to the Commission.
The question of the death penalty should therefore be raised at this year' s General Assembly, certainly not at the Geneva session.
The Court's report is there for a reason, our response to it is there for a reason and it is important that it is followed through.
This means that there must be a comprehensive partnership between local authorities and national governments with regard to how these funds are to be spent.
My reaction may come as a surprise when I say that I personally am at a loss as to the heightened sensitivity displayed towards Austria in matters of respect for human rights, having a sense of responsibility for one' s own past, and the stability of democracy.
The security afforded by this type of saving is attributable to the broad range of investment vehicles in which the funds are placed.
However, the responsible authorities of the Western countries need to make it clear that, once the mission of the United Nations committee has been successfully completed, the embargo will be lifted and normal trade relations will be able to be resumed.
The debate is closed.
But it is nonetheless true - and this has been repeated from all sections of this House - that the European industrial fabric is composed of small and medium-sized businesses, and that the Commission often plays the role of auctoritas, of legitimising the nature of the internal market.
This calls on the Commission and Member States to step up the adoption of measures to combat the possible negative effects of aquaculture on the marine environment.
The fifteen countries have appointed diplomatic experts at ambassador level in order to tackle one of the most important issues which we will face in the coming months.
The forthcoming French Presidency also seems willing to give this dossier the high priority it deserves.
I do not think that any of us has the least doubt about that.
Yet you do not indicate the resources you intend to implement to achieve this.
In fact perhaps as little, the lawyers tell us, as 20% or one-fifth of the cost. That is not unreasonable.
It is therefore important this year, too, that the countries of the European Union should reach a consensus on the position to take in any vote on the resolution.
It must nonetheless be guaranteed that the Member States and the Community are compelled to take measures to achieve the relevant goals and comply with the timetables.
We will launch a broad and open consultation process in order to get the views of all the different parties interested.
In response I can only say that this already exists.
This applies to those which have been turned into monopolies, both private and public.
The vote adopted by our committee proves that it is not only the European Commission, ECOFIN and the Central Bank, but also the European Parliament which advocates and stands for an acutely neo-liberal economic and social policy which has already eroded the living and working conditions of workers and the wider working classes in the Member States of the European Union.
Young, creative individuals must be made to feel an attachment to the countryside. If they all leave then nothing much will go on there any more.
It appears from this study that adjustments are rife but most of these adjustments, in fact, the majority of them, appear to be downward adjustments, the remainder being improvements.
How else can we describe the complete annihilation of a regional capital of 400 000 inhabitants, the unremitting and inordinate bombing of towns, villages and districts where, in amongst the whole of the civilian population, there are perhaps a handful of Chechen fighters?
With particular reference now to the question of access by women to the opportunities which are created, I would like to say, first, that there is, via the Social Fund, an entire equal opportunities pillar which the Member States must implement, i.e. special policies for women which must use Social Fund resources.
We all know that there are still various parts of the Treaty, some of them very old, which are still referred to as EC.
Mr Staes, the situation in Mitrovica is well known.
If we want to help the Cambodians with the task of reconciliation on which they have embarked, we need to try and sentence those responsible at the highest level and thus exonerate the simple underlings and all those who were willingly or forcibly dragged along behind them.
Commissioner, as time is very short, I would like to pick out the seven points which we feel, and you have already mentioned some of them, are essential to work on: double-hulled vessels in our waters as soon as possible and the strictest possible state control of ports. In particular, we must ensure that classification societies are compelled to make their reports public, as currently, we do not have access to them.
These have been the most important moments in the Council' s expression of its political will to establish an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union.
The total appropriation allocated is not up to the challenge.
Let me, in this connection, welcome the presence in the visitors' gallery of Mrs Javette-Le Besque, spokesperson for the oil slick action group "Marée noire" , made up of men and women from the French department of Morbihan.
The Commission can accept in part Amendments Nos 8, 18, 27, 29, 42, 43, 47, 54, 60, 62, 93, 94, 104 and 105.
While reiterating my solidarity with all the victims of this, I should like to salute the dedication of the workers, professionals and volunteers, who are still involved in cleaning the polluted beaches.
State interference in the economy is, even today, still to blame for the most serious hindrances placed in the way of the market, competition and freedom of choice for European users and consumers.
Clearly the Commission has given some consideration to this problem and I am pleased that these reports which have been produced so far have looked carefully at the issue.
And is it then up to the state, in other words the legislative, to impose such measures on political parties?
Even in that respect, any cooperation should, however, be carried out according to the subsidiarity principle.
We are, therefore, in agreement with the report, Commissioner, as well as the broad outlines of the White Paper.
Yet as things stand, only the first four Member States have ratified the agreement concluded in 1995.
The Commission gives no soul to Europe.
The Commission report generally relativises this observation, particularly when it refers to the social and economic situation of some regions of the Union in which I have a special interest, by which I mean the French overseas departments and, more generally, the most remote regions.
What steps will the Commission take to prevent nuclear accidents and the proliferation of nuclear weapons in a country that wishes to join the EU but spends enormous amounts on nuclear programmes while receiving financial aid from the EU budget?
- (FR) The INTERREG Community Initiative is just one element of an ill-fated European regional policy.
The point I want to make relates to Mrs Theato' s report.
I just want to conclude by saying that a number of Members of Parliament think that the present proposal goes too far, while others think that I am not sufficiently liberal.
One thing I would advise him to do is to listen to Radio 4 at the end of March to the first Reith lecture where he will hear the Commissioner for External Relations giving an extremely moving and convincing lecture on this whole subject.
I am particularly pleased that my own country, Ireland, is to the forefront in the implementation of new food regulations based on the principle of traceability.
In relation to this, I must inform the European Parliament of my intention to organise halfway through the year 2000 a seminar with national and regional authorities on this question of the evaluation of procedures for the exchange of good practice in the management of Structural Funds.
Competition is run and managed in the interest of the citizens, their economic interest and for their liberty.
The procedures for exercising these implementing powers take the form of a limited number of committee procedures.
Central to this is the attempt to produce and engender responsibility.
It simply adds to them, complements them, building a bridge between the various cultures of our various countries.
The result is that the export of cane sugar from the relevant countries to the Union is significantly restricted.
There is no point continuing to ask these people and organisations to go down the democratic road.
The Court also stated that the principle of relative stability had not been violated since the anchovy quota allocated to Spain in zone VIII had been maintained at 90% and France' s at 10%.
The second point relates to the retrodisplacement of law enforcement.
I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to start a debate at this point. This was just a procedural motion.
. I accept that.
Parliament is committed to this task, which is something this report bears impressive witness to.
I believe that this proposal relies on very long deadlines.
This already gives us a basis for the authorisation of GMOs.
I said that the selection of projects remains the responsibility of the Member States pursuant to the Structural Funds Regulation.
It is simply too bad, and I can well understand why people are becoming impatient and demanding that we have a common European Public Prosecutor' s Office instead.
Coccidiostats now accompany the manure that is spread on the fields. In that way, they end up in our water supplies which, as we all know, are our most vital resource.
I can go into that in detail if the honourable Member would like but there is no doubt that we are on all fours with the Ombudsman on this important issue.
Rather than banning flags of convenience, which would violate the right of every sovereign state to have a merchant fleet, under the 1995 EU directive on port state control, national maritime authorities must impose more effective sanctions on flag states which fail to carry out their international treaty obligations.
I would ask the Commission and the absent Council at long last to do something for these political prisoners.
I would like to say that, as we know, the Commission report on State aid to the steel industry does not include individual decisions made under the exception procedure, pursuant to Article 95 of the ECSC Treaty, but addresses decisions which are not covered by the code on aid for the steel sector.
To a certain extent, they are taken into account in the statistics on GDP and labour force surveys and, in any case, I wish to point out the efforts which Eurostat is making and shall continue to make in order to improve the quality of the statistics.
We have now obtained a first-rate enumeration of a variety of measures.
I should just like to point out once again that the joint text still holds good.
.
That is why I want to echo the comments from my colleague about the importance of the reform process which has been promised to the people of Europe by Mr Prodi and Mr Kinnock.
The role of the budgetary authority in the operation of ABM will, therefore, be vital.
It was pointed out, during the discussion of Mr Brok' s excellent report in committee, that both countries can also benefit from the MEDA budget line for horizontal projects of regional interest.
At the same time, there is a war going on between Eritrea and Ethiopia and the armaments industry in Europe is not short in sending guns, after which we will send the bread.
But the people asking the question need to know that not every instance of instability, as the Commissioner has just so impressively told us, is the result of speculation.
Otherwise, there is a danger of people taking the law into their own hands. It is therefore also important that local officers should be trained, and the idea was, in fact, that 2 000 to 3 000 officers should be trained.
We have been asked for EUR 35 million.
Given the oral amendment, we felt we could vote in favour and that is what we have done.
We need to enforce the regulations and ensure that the "polluter pays" principle is applied so that financial penalties and some incentives are used to put pressure on both ship operators and oil companies to ensure that best practice is introduced.
Nevertheless, I would like to add that with regard to cultural policy, and in particular the audiovisual dimension, the Portuguese Presidency will be paying very close attention to extending and enriching European audiovisual policy by adopting a Media-Plus programme which could go some way towards allaying Europe' s main fears.
The applicant countries' hopes are at least as important as the hopes of our current fellow citizens, who are beginning to feel bitterly disappointed by the way Europe works, as it is not resolving the most serious problems.
While only around 10% of the world' s population live in sub-Saharan Africa, 70% of all people who became infected with the AIDS virus in 1998 live there.
The Minutes of the previous sitting have been distributed.
We therefore assume, Commissioner Byrne, that you too will accept our proposed amendment of the legal base.
In relation to this, you are no doubt also aware how difficult it is nowadays to preserve natural species as well as natural spaces.
Many directives have already been adopted. Furthermore, the Commission wants to make these directives more understandable and more compatible with each other and to give them clearer objectives.
In many cases the situation has deteriorated and we therefore cannot settle for just rationalisation of the texts.
So this is what we are going to do.
My fear is that such deficiencies in EU legislation could lead to turf wars between national and EU bodies, who should be working together rather than against one another.
In view of this concentration on a limited number of projects, the publication and dissemination of the results of the new URBAN Community Initiative will perhaps be particularly important to achieve a multiplier effect.
Commissioner, an agreement is an agreement.
No, car manufacturers have been making colossal profits for years.
Will Israel let Palestinian refugees return or be given compensation?
I am the first to accept that GMOs are a very important issue.
And Europe has indeed achieved progress by means of quantified targets.
We may need to come back to you and ask for additional resources to fund the new tasks which have been assigned to us and those which will be assigned to us in the future.
I believe that as equal partners the EU- and ACP-elected delegates are up to that task.
Does it reflect this vision of coherence?
The only acceptable solution that guarantees the future, that leaves no room for foreign interventions, like those that led to all the problems of the last fifty years, is a unified and federal Cyprus in accordance with the resolutions of the UN' s Security Council.
Mrs McCarthy is therefore suggesting an increase in the funds allocated to URBAN and the promotion of this Community initiative through a costly communication campaign extolling the benefits of a federal Europe.
Mr President, for those unfortunate investors even real euros are false money.
Well, for the time being, the revision has not got off the starting block.
However, more work is needed on this.
For example it has enabled us to fly from peripheral parts of the European Union to the centre for a fraction of the cost of 20 years ago.
Yet the whole of the Commission communication is based on the opposite theory. In this theory, on the pretext of ensuring the best protection for peoples, their margin of independent choice should be increasingly limited by new regulations, new policies or new, restrictive legal structures such as the draft Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The purpose of the meeting, which was attended by several Vice-Presidents and Quaestors, together with the architects who designed this building, was to discuss how we could improve our working conditions.
This meeting was based on two documents, one being a British document on the Headline Goals and the other a document on the permanent military bodies of the European Union.
I support institutional changes so as to ensure that enlargement of the Union takes place in a streamlined and structured manner.
If Parliament want to carry out proper inspections, these documents must be available, and I would like to know what the Commission intends to do to improve this situation.
One or two honourable Members, Mr Ferber and Mr Cushnahan, spoke about the gap between rhetoric and reality.
Social rights should determine economic choices, and not the other way around.
For as Mr Langen said just now, we certainly had a tough fight on our hands in the Conciliation Committee.
I think that there is a need for this, as public opinion is looking for change and, in any event, my group would like to see a clear change by the end of 2002.
These are the opening of the Intergovernmental Conference and the starting of negotiations with the future members of the European Union.
I thank colleagues in the Fisheries Committee for their overwhelming vote in support of my report and I in particular thank my Scottish colleagues in the committee for their input to this whole process.
We too want to help put Europe on its feet.
For this reason, the draft reform, which has been drawn up by the rapporteur, Vice-President Marinho, is to be welcomed.
But, you are right, we are discussing Amendment No 37 and here too we have a similar problem.
I know that the Commission is thinking seriously about how to achieve this, but if the European Union is doing the most work out there, then it should also be given the leadership, and bring coherence to the situation, so that we can be of real assistance to the people.
These dossiers will be progressed by the Transport Council and I can therefore assure you, on behalf of the Council, that we will not fail to give the highest priority to the proposals, which there is every indication the Commission is due to present in this area, which we regard as being a vital part of environmental protection.
We have no doubts about this and we think that the Members taking part in this preparatory group will have an opportunity to raise this issue again.
Mr President, Commissioner, regarding the relationship between science, on the one hand, and applying the precautionary principle on the other, the communication states that invoking that precautionary principle always requires a political decision if there is a lack of scientific evidence.
Commissioner, please read the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and treat it as a matter of priority, because this is our citizens' greatest problem.
Changes should not be brought about too quickly and cannot be too sweeping, otherwise public opinion will make ratification of any future European Union treaty very difficult indeed.
This professional training would be targeted at awareness of the terms of the legislation, regulations and administrative conditions applicable to such transport.
the report (A4-0029/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the implementation of operations in the framework of the pre-accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta [COM(1999)0535 - C5-0308/1999 - 1999/0199(CNS)].
Madam President, President of the Commission, this is a vital document for the future and fate of Europe.
The Presidency has engaged in intensive discussions with a range of Members of this Parliament and with the group to which Parliament entrusted the task of negotiating with the Council.
It is clear that this is primarily an issue for the IGC and one that addresses an aspiration to which this Parliament can only make a limited contribution in as much as everything depends on the Council and the Commission.
Any future government must therefore be judged according to the values and principles it professes to in its manifesto, and not according to the prejudgements put about both by political adversaries and the international media.
Like my group, I shall therefore support this aspect the common position which, I feel, offers a balanced compromise between constraints upon firms and essential advances in environmental protection.
Let me turn to some of the more important points.
We finally got here, on Monday at 8.30 p.m., after some of us had spent more than 12 hours travelling.
Too little operational capacity upstream or, in fact, excessive use, can cause problems downstream.
GMOs are still the subject of great uncertainty, both in terms of their environmental impact and of their effects on human and animal health.
The Commission suggests shorter deadlines.
An important question in this context is the future distribution of water.
We will conduct this dialogue with our citizens, including the most disadvantaged and those isolated from decision-making or information centres.
We believe in 'one man, one vote' more than 'one share, one vote' .
Lastly, will we be able to recognise when this principle has been applied in legislation?
Indeed, both parties will need to make huge efforts.
I understand your concern about the rights of children.
Subject: Alcohol monopoly and the internal market What action does the Commission intend to take in order to prevent the extension of the State alcohol monopoly apparently being planned by Sweden, and the associated import restrictions, and to ensure that the rules of the single market are applied?
It has unfortunately been observed, I have to say, that the European Union has failed to reach agreement internally on specific tax measures. This indicates how difficult these dossiers are.
Madam President, I am pleased about the fact that, in Austria, the will of the large majority of the people is being respected and that this formation of government constitutes, in my eyes, a huge victory for democracy.
Only in certain countries, Germany for example, is there specialised jurisdiction.
This is exactly the task which a small, limited, European Public Prosecutor' s Office should carry out, not just at the criminal investigation stage, but also at the prosecution stage.
Everything that I have just said, ladies and gentlemen, demonstrates that the Commission is resolved to taken the views of Parliament into account.
Who will be next, quite literally, for the chop?
The next item is the final version of the draft agenda as drawn up by the Conference of Presidents, pursuant to Rule 110 of the Rules of Procedure.
However, I can confirm that the principle of equal opportunity and equal treatment between men and women will certainly be included among the rights guaranteed by the future European Charter of Fundamental Rights. This is because this principle already figures among the rights guaranteed by the EC Treaty and by secondary legislation and because it undoubtedly constitutes a common constitutional tradition in the Member States.
A car has dangerous components which we must ban long-term.
Undoubtedly, reform of the European Council is also going to be included in this White Paper on the governance of the European Union which will be published this summer.
Mr President, we need to speak our minds on this subject in the European Parliament, during the plenary sittings and in the committees, even if it is obvious that the debate must take into account the world of the culture, the legal culture and the places where institutional issues are addressed.
We are negotiating with Turkey as to the possibility of its acceding to the Union and so it is in the interests of all of us that every state that wishes to become a Member should cultivate friendly relations with its neighbours.
But for my part, I am not sure that it would add much practical value to our efforts.
First of all, could I express my thanks on behalf of President Prodi and my colleagues in the Commission for the support and understanding offered by several Members of the House to the position taken by the Commission in the statement that we made yesterday.
The motion also asks that a position document, drawn up by the Commission and Council, should be submitted before the next annual meeting of the IMF.
What are we going to do seriously to bring that appalling situation to an end?
Our project of a Europe that aims to satisfy social needs envisages the convergence of living conditions towards the highest common denominator.
It is essential for these regions to be able to benefit fully from INTERREG III, just like all the other regions in the Union, especially now that the REGIS programme dedicated to such isolated regions has been dropped.
Are there any comments?
He is one of the more diligent and hard working commissioners.
But other countries, in other situations, may have alternative analyses.
The latter element continues to be the Commission' s fundamental objective, as we indicated in the Prodi document submitted for your debate at the Lisbon Summit, in that we are aiming for full employment in the medium term.
We can now see that there is perhaps some reason for this warning from Parliament.
Mr President, a third of EU money is invested in funds for all kinds of development causes.
However, we in the Liberal Group welcome this because it means we are now settling down to business.
And just as well, in my view.
Let us stop the shadow-boxing. Let us drop the elaborate charades and let us respect the duties that the Treaties impose on us and the timescales allowed for full democratic debate.
I therefore give the floor immediately to Mr Bourlanges, in his capacity as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
Right now we do not have the slightest idea as to when the CEN will be in a position to put forward practical proposals.
Because, if this is not the case, we will be faced with the paradox that the Commission itself will introduce elements of unfair competition into the functioning of the European internal market.
Parliament wanted financial inspection and audit functions to be separated.
In this first speech, I would like to share with Parliament the Commission' s view of the most important events in 1999.
The content of my amendment is, in fact, echoed in Amendment No 43, which also stipulates this condition of accrual.
I protest against an ignoble and inhuman organisation which literally condemns hundreds of millions of human beings to a wretched death to enrich a minority.
I want to end by stressing that we cannot assess whether this is a good agreement or not, we must wait and see how it works in practice.
Mr President, this proposal to amend the 1970 directive on additives in feedingstuffs is the first in a whole series of proposals on the subject of feedingstuffs.
So, unification in this small area.
The virus harms cold-blooded animals.
Thirdly, the EU and the ACP have also agreed on a new specific procedure to be launched in serious cases of corruption.
It will no longer simply be a case of submitting papers and having them approved; for one thing, each person will have to take responsibility themselves, and that is probably why there is unease about this in other quarters.
That too is a concern of the people, for, as has rightly been said, this will be a new currency for them, new in terms of how it looks and also how it is used.
However, Mrs Reding was certainly receptive and farsighted, and personally undertook to review the issue and carry out a comprehensive assessment within a few years, and therefore to change the situation.
. (SV) Mr President, I am pleased to be able to tell you that, in Montreal, we have just signed a protocol concerning bio-safety.
One contradiction within your programme relates to globalisation.
The situation there is totally unacceptable.
For this reason, we must ensure that the instruments have the effect of enabling us to carry out, on behalf of the citizens, the tasks we have already formally been set in the Treaty.
There is currently a great deal of work under way in terms of reform and this must be the priority for the moment to allow consolidation and strengthening of the EU institutions.
The first key concern is independence.
I therefore maintain that Parliament cannot force the issue and it would be paradoxical for it to do so in the context of redefining the environmental scope of the instrument.
The lesson learned from the European experience is that where wages are lowest, where the salary ratio is the most flexible, unemployment is the highest and where wages are highest, where the social relations are the best regulated, the unemployment rate is the lowest.
They then renewed their commitment after an Irish non-governmental organisation began a legal challenge in the Irish courts.
Sweden now wants to extend this measure by another five years, as this would be necessary to protect public health.
With regard to Amendments Nos 5 and 6, I want to emphasise that projects for the sustainable exploitation of groundwater and surface water, together with projects for reducing forms of air pollution which contribute to the greenhouse effect, are to a large degree covered by LIFE.
But there is also funding which is being pumped via Brussels back to the same rich Member States.
We do not have another law at the moment, and until we do, we must deal with genetically-modified micro-organisms as and when we pass legislation; we must include them as an add-on and insist that they be labelled.
There is a delay in adopting the INTERREG guidelines in March or April 2000.
They cover a commitment by FYROM to approximate its legislation to that of the European Community, notably in key areas of the internal market; and they cover provisions on cooperation with FYROM in a wide range of fields, including justice and home affairs.
Now, we must ensure that the present legislative process is concluded successfully.
A report on the work to be undertaken, together with the Member States and the tourism industry should be available in about two years from now.
I think it is generally agreed here this afternoon across all groups that the Helsinki agenda will not be sufficient to cover the necessary reform to prepare Europe for enlargement.
He was right to point out that it is not a good idea to share out this funding between all rural areas.
It would be wrong to allow the regulated and protected undertakings to invest in other undertakings involved in such risky investments.
The market is a law unto itself.
The Commission is, in fact, retaining not only the power to take matters out of the jurisdiction of national authorities, but clearly obliging the national jurisdictions to avoid disputing the decisions of the Commission at all.
But would you, Commissioner, also be in a position to give an undertaking that if and when the agenda is enlarged by the Council you would report this to Parliament so that we could discuss it amongst ourselves and indeed with you, with the intention of continuing that dialogue with the citizens on which you have laid such stress?
I do not know if he is still present and can hear me.
The agricultural economy and agricultural regions have been irreparably damaged by the existing regional policy, which has had dramatic consequences on employment levels in rural areas and on the living conditions of farmers, particularly in the South.
We also need to criticise the Commission' s practice of approving multiple aid packages for steel enterprises which in their view, do not fall within the categories of the code, even given the fact that the European Court of Justice approved this unequal treatment where certain individual decisions were concerned.
The post office and, more generally, all public services must, on the other hand, recruit additional staff.
Compensation afterwards is not going to make up for the damage that was done.
Amendment No 34 is unacceptable because a simple deletion of the reference to pension funds can create ambiguity as to whether or not a management company can carry out these activities.
Today, even Mr Cohn-Bendit - and that is saying something - can gauge the results of the disastrous policy that he so wished for.
The question is then, of course, where does the volume of alcohol originate from which is not imported by travellers?
However, while all these developments are indeed welcome, I would like to address a matter which I have raised in this House on previous occasions.
It should go hand in hand with our postal services in rural areas.
The rules for management companies, for example the conditions for starting up and conducting business, are brought into line with the existing rules and regulations.
However, saying is one thing and doing is another!
The European Union must take the initiative and must also, as demanded in the motion, propose this initiative to the G7 because it is primarily a political question.
Nonetheless, if the opportunity for Member States to determine the areas, within the scope of this initiative, remains available, then the Commission will have to ensure a certain focusing of resources and prioritise projects in the less prosperous areas.
Amendments Nos 17, 18, 27, 34, 36, 38, 44 and 45 relate to the manufacturer' s liability.
I therefore urge this House to reject the full report and let the original Commission proposal, which was very well-balanced, stand unamended.
The problem facing us at the moment is whether there is currently a consensus within the European Union on this issue being included, particularly bearing in mind that if one such issue is included, other issues of a similar nature will probably be added to the conference' s agenda.
I must also stress that once again the Commission is, in fact, skirting the issue of practical action on equal opportunities.
There is absolutely no doubt that the forthcoming trip by the President of the European Parliament to the region will contribute to this.
We therefore need resources available to spend before proceeding to enlargement, so that we can at last establish a European monitoring body responsible for monitoring quality of life and living conditions, with the aim of creating a new world where such tragedies will no longer occur.
Brok report (A5-0029/2000)
As far as Cyprus is concerned, part of the technical and financial aid provided for in the instruments will be used to bring the Greek and Turkish communities closer together and solve the problem of the partition of the island once and for all.
At the same time, however, I am asking for it to include issues that improve and complement the reform, I repeat, of all the institutional bodies as well as issues that are of direct concern and interest to the European public such as health, energy, culture, transport and even tourism.
Madam President, I would like, with reference to this report, to underline the problem of translation: reference should be made to the French or Italian version, since the text adopted by this Parliament will also be the authoritative one for the Commission.
I hope that in the future it can be included in the list of renewables.
European taxpayers contribute EUR 40 billion per year in support of agriculture in the EU.
Are state aid to business or inter-company agreements legitimate in a market economy, and who must supervise these exceptions to the absolute rules of the market economy?
I should point out that the funds available for regions with problems account for one third of the total budget.
Social security and protection are among the greatest acquisitions of working people in Europe, and were achieved after many years of battling against the aspirations of big business, and by the constant expression of the solidarity that characterises working people.
I would ask you to use the full name of our Group.
Change will have to come in any case, change would imply a transition period because there is no possibility of any system being invented that could enable us to move from one Friday to the next Monday from one system to another.
Macedonia remains a potential minefield and has a history to match.
Mrs Plooij-Van Gorsel, let me say how disappointed I am, because I personally thought this problem had been resolved long ago.
We are delighted with the pledge that EU aid will be used to clean the rivers, and at least as important is the reinforcement of environmental awareness both in Romania and, more generally, in Central and Eastern Europe.
The debate is closed.
I must say that I support these reduced deadlines, especially as provision is made for derogations.
The serious business is therefore now going to start as we are to vote on your programme.
I am very grateful to the President of the Council for the statement this morning on the Middle East at the beginning of this debate and for hearing some of Minister Gama' s insights, as he arrived hot-foot from the region.
I believe that in future we must seize this opportunity.
However, I would ask you, in accordance with the line which is now constantly followed by the European Parliament and by the whole of the European Community, to make representations, using the weight of your prestigious office and the institution you represent, to the President and to the Governor of Texas, Mr Bush, who has the power to order a stay of execution and to reprieve the condemned person.
The common position was more feasible since it envisaged 2006 for vehicles already on the road.
Gender-related aspects must feature prominently in all these goals.
Furthermore, as regards consultations with Parliament, Commissioner Bolkestein will meet the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism next Monday.
We should ask ourselves to what extent this spending of funds was justified.
That is another point, i.e. the question of obligation, which you were somewhat unclear on in your White Paper.
But, probably through lack of confidence in the zeal of certain members, the Council has preferred to implement a legal instrument which is more binding at European level: a framework decision.
Paragraph 11 indicates that symbolic measures can replace the shared political outlook represented by applicant status.
It is obvious therefore that this issue is especially important to Scotland but it is vitally important to all parts of Europe that the disease be brought under control and, if possible, eradicated.
I would like to say that in the meantime there will be at least four European Councils, those in Lisbon and Feira and two during the French presidency.
In the twentieth century, we have had experience of the fact that democracies can find themselves at risk, and morality, values and the spirit which I mentioned can be mortally affected by viruses which have just one name: nationalist glorification, populism and the concept of racial superiority.
As Liberals and Greens, we clearly have different opinions on how the world should look, but we are well on the way to agreement as to our objectives, and we shall try to find reasonable solutions to our problems.
History demonstrates that investors benefit from a liberal and light-handed approach to regulation.
The Community initiative programme in each Member State must comply with the regulation. This is the same as the Social Fund regulation, i.e. EQUAL comes under the Social Fund regulation.
The best way of achieving proper collection is to ensure that the last holder and/or owner can deliver the car to an authorised treatment facility without any cost.
Mr President, Malta and Cyprus are very different from the countries of mainland Europe.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Cederschiöld, on her very serious work.
That is not correct.
In saying all of this, I would like to make it clear that Europe nevertheless has one of the best food industries in the world and also one of the safest food control systems.
Subject: Commission's rejection of legislation on proper administration in the EU According to newspaper reports, the Commission has rejected the proposal by EU Ombudsman Jacob Söderman for a citizens? right to proper administration in the EU.
In addition, at a time when Europe faces the task of defining a new policy on copyright and neighbouring rights, there is an urgent need - as has just been pointed out several times - to define and redefine what exactly an author is.
So this issue will be addressed.
The beginning of the talks with Syria paved the way for a convening of the multilateral steering group in Moscow at the end of the month.
We know that this area is proving more difficult to resolve, both because women still bear the main responsibilities in family life and because there is still prejudice and personal interest standing in the way of genuine participation by women in various areas which involve greater responsibility.
In my opinion, it would be good if we could achieve consensus at the international level regarding certain basic principles of competition law.
It is not an old one, it was issued in 1997.
We must therefore closely examine all the elements of the chain involved in the manufacture of feedingstuffs for production animals.
The Commissioner has suggested three main chapters which need to be drafted and brought into line with our legislation, in which we can set standards.
I shall deal with each of the individual amendments separately.
Thirdly, the political parties must assume direct responsibility for the political actions of their public officials. They must prevent any individual action or declaration which is contrary to the principles and values of coexistence and tolerance expressed by the European Union.
In my opinion, what we are discussing here today is partly the EU' s contribution to the debate about the opportunities and risks of globalisation and about the rules there must be in order to give poor countries a decent chance.
Yet this new governance simply means how the institutions and our public authorities operate, if we agree that the European Union must be a public authority.
How can we be sure that those of your colleagues responsible for industrial policy and foreign trade policy, will not, as they did on the last few occasions with your predecessors, keep pulling the carpet from underneath you?
The year 2000 also marks the start of the implementation of the European Union Drugs Strategy 2000-2004.
Question No 41 by (H-0021/00):
The Commission is following with very great concern, as I know all honourable Members will be, the emergency situation in Mozambique.
Our objective, the committee' s objective, the Court of Auditors' objective is not to abolish financial control, it is to get rid of and improve upon centralised financial control.
Your sabre-rattling fools no one because, as you know perfectly well, whether you like it or not, you need Austria in order to reform the Treaties and harmonise savings tax.
We further deplore the system of flags of convenience with regard to both merchant vessels and fishing boats.
In brief, I would like to say that we are entering the period when we are called upon to manage the programming for 2000-2006, which must be no routine period for the good reason that we have two major challenges to face.
However, we must be vigilant in the face of global operators, against whom nation-states are no longer able to impose limits.
Koch Report (A5-0104/1999)
The events in Kosovo and the Balkans in general have certainly stirred our hearts and minds. There are also important issues at stake in the Middle East in which the President of this House played a major role on her recent trip.
This communication does not pretend to be the final word on this issue; however, it is the first time that the Commission has presented a structured presentation of the principle and its operational use.
At the same time, an appeal has also been made in broad terms to increase the defence budgets.
This is far from straightforward but we will do what we can to make this possible, in close liaison with the US and Russian co-sponsors as well as the regional parties.
Is this an element in the radical decentralisation which Mr Prodi talked about this morning?
Mr President, I am in favour of tightening up the legislation on port state control and on classification societies.
This is because the Helsinki agenda is limited to consideration only of the three issues that relate in a fragmentary way to the structure and operation of just two of the European Union' s institutional bodies.
Mr President, it is incumbent upon me to remind my colleague, Mr Evans, of why Wales actually achieved Objective 1 status.
More specifically, with regard to fisheries management in the Mediterranean, we are all aware that fishing in the Mediterranean is not governed by provisions on TACs.
I naturally hope that the result of today' s vote will be a good one.
The Commission can accept in principle Amendments Nos 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, 12, 14, 17, 20, 22, 24, 25, 26, 30, 32, 35, 36, 37, 38, 50, 55, 56, 57, 58, 63, 69, 73, 79, 86, 89, 96, 99, 106 and 108.
We do not know what will happen in each of the countries where liberalisation is going to take place.
Agenda
The Commission is also said to have the right of evocation and can give guidelines to the national competition authorities.
However, we have acknowledged that this is an innovative and very welcome initiative by the Commission.
Naturally, it is not in the first place a question of cost; there can in fact be an enormous cost to society if the decision to take a particular measure is avoided.
However, we amended the draft report adopted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to clarify certain points which will make this Community initiative more effective.
The area in Arizona which is to be the New Land for the Dineh Indians was hit in 1979 by the worst nuclear disaster in US history.
Russia is a permanent member of the UN Security Council and a full member of the Council of Europe and the OSCE, it has been invited to G7 and is a client of the IMF and the World Bank.
It is also important to set percentages and a date for vehicles to be composed of recyclable materials.
The tune that will be played will be one that the people of Europe will be listening to and they will want to hear the right sort of tune.
This is essential for an executive administration that must be accountable, not just to this House, but more generally to the European public.
What we are doing here is not hypocritical.
Why did he not mention the fact that one of his own Liberal colleagues also has a consultancy that is under investigation by the BBC?
The Commission has suggested adopting the content of these, with certain changes in the wording.
At the same time, however, there will have to be some changes in the framework within which those countries now receiving aid operate, particularly the need to fight corruption and to maintain democracy and good governance as fundamental principles in developing their political systems, together with a need to focus special attention on these countries' own policies for reducing poverty.
We must all ensure that it is not always the same person, i.e. the vehicle owner, who pays.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I appreciate the sensitivity with which you are addressing the issue and your effort to establish contact with the Turkish Cypriot side, but perhaps it would be more clear and more correct if the vocabulary you use did not leave one suspecting that you might be attempting some kind of indirect recognition, even though you stressed that this is not the case.
But I do not believe today, nor have I ever believed, that our burgeoning economic relationship with China - manifested, for example, by China' s EUR 25 billion surplus with the European Union - should silence us when it comes to China' s human rights record.
I think ours is a different approach!
The relationship between fisheries and marine ecosystems is obvious.
This proposal is radically opposed to the spirit of the current system in which the criminal law and criminal proceedings that lie at the heart of the national legal systems must come under the sovereignty of each nation and lie within the exclusive competence of each state.
Please note that Mr Michel Raymond, Mr Jean Saint-Josse and I voted against this amendment.
We got an increase of 2 million on their starting figure which was a decisive increase which I can recommend to you and which the Commission confirmed that it could implement the programmes under.
This is the problem, and it is for this reason that we are critical of the position adopted by the Council, which is one we find completely unsatisfactory.
Like Mr Miller, I would welcome an explanation from you regarding the implementation of the 1997 directive within the next couple of months or weeks or, if at all possible, within the next couple of days.
We are aware that it is a delicate debate.
I commend Mr Florenz, Mr Lange and others who have sought from both sides of the party divide a compromise based on shared costs.
Other issues have been mentioned: cattle-farming in Namibia, tomatoes and milk powder in the Caribbean.
It is especially important to get SMEs involved in the planning and implementation of programmes.
Such jobs are unquestionably useful, and creating an adequate number of them would reduce unemployment in Europe.
Finally, aid can enable restructuring, offer training, save jobs and thus know-how.
Let me just look at the figures from the day that the agreement was signed.
It is imperative that national governments lend their full support to improving energy efficiency and developing renewables.
We therefore respect whatever Parliament may decide.
The Court of Justice accepted some time ago that Community competition law could be applied by the legal bodies of the Member States and in 1994, the Commission published a communication on this subject.
Firstly, I think that the Commission should pay much more attention to the proper storage of documents.
We now know that resistance to antibiotics poses a very serious threat to people's health, particularly in the case of small children.
Obviously we all have different approaches which is demonstrated by our debate and the motions for a resolution tabled at the beginning.
I sincerely hope that, in the interests of improving the safety and quality of life of the people living in the Middle East, all the key protagonists will move forward quickly, in the very near future, so as to reach an overall agreement on all the key matters which need to be resolved.
I appreciate the fact that Parliament has proved to be flexible over the very sensitive and difficult question of imposing charges for water services.
Moreover, this text has also been adopted in the forest directive on the use of forest reproductive material and we feel that this text urgently needs to be adopted in this directive as well.
The compromise reached by the Council is fair but fragile.
He will also be aware of the effects the ban had on Mafia activity within the United States, where, eventually, prohibition was withdrawn.
Two hundred years ago it was liberty, equality and fraternity, and things went along very well until the governments of the left raised equality above the others.
Because it is more sovereignty-sensitive it is more voter-and citizen-sensitive.
, rapporteur.- Mr President, I had hoped to be rising at 9 a.m., not 9 p.m., to present this report.
We are right to include this in the draft resolution, but there are hundreds, even thousands of Flora Brovinas out there.
With regard to the agenda for Thursday, following a request made yesterday in plenary, I propose extending the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance by half an hour to 6.00 p.m. when the vote will take place.
Finally, I consider it a very positive sign that you speak so often about the civil society, although, unfortunately, this is another contradiction.
Nevertheless, I have to say that the same authorities have expressed their concern about the pressure they may come under to resolve the issues raised by partition, which will evidently imply some concessions.
It appears that, as European security and defence policy takes shape, the Commission and Parliament are increasingly being left out in the cold.
Because the joint motion for a resolution proposes a range of effective mechanisms for ensuring coherence, I shall use the very short time allotted to me here just to mention one more such mechanism, namely obliging the Commission to carry out an evaluation of new, relevant legislation from this aspect.
In view of this growing interest, the Commission therefore considered that it would be useful to present a communication to set out its position on the use of the precautionary principle.
Putting that on one side, because that is the situation, it does not mean that we do not have a view and a competence in human rights issues.
I feel it is important to put special emphasis on trying out new ways to raise the profile of the natural and cultural heritage and to strengthen the economic environment, in order to promote employment.
And what can we say about the leaden shroud that is crashing down on Russian and international journalists and with the banishment of the humanitarian organisations and any international commission of inquiry at the sites of the massacres?
Fishing quota transfers between Portugal and France were reduced proportionally from 5 008 tonnes in 1999 to 3 000 tonnes in 2000, for fishing in French waters.
The challenge was immense.
Ten days ago I was in Westminster, so you can see, Mr Corbett, that I am not afraid of the difficulties.
Indeed, this is my reason for paying a personal visit the day after tomorrow to two of the French departments which have been severely disabled by the storms.
Is this too much of a burden?
But I know too that we will have many further opportunities in the coming months to consider the White Paper's proposals on the authority.
Subject: Controlling access to Community waters for oil tankers In connection with the accident involving the oil tanker ERIKA off the French coast, which produced a large oil slick, what steps does the Council intend to take to control access to Community waters for tankers flying flags of convenience which do not meet Community safety standards?
The only substantial question that has arisen is the legislative basis.
We have opened this chapter with the White Paper on Food Safety: we now need to make significant headway in the environment sector.
Is this actually how we want things done?
Thirdly, we spent much of this afternoon in this Chamber discussing conflict prevention, how one could prevent crises happening or how one could respond to crises more effectively.
In many ways this was the end of an old era and the start of a new one.
Mr President, I wanted to press home my explanation of vote by this oral explanation following on from the Schroedter report with regard to regional development.
His behaviour towards Prime Minister Ehud Barak was plainly insulting.
There is nothing new in your work programme.
We must put the people of the ACP countries first in our relationship with their rulers, who need to be fully aware that development aid from the European Union is intended for the people and not for the oligarchies that handle all the internal and external resources in some countries.
Ireland, for generations, sent her sons and daughters to places of safety throughout the world, but now when the Celtic tiger is providing wealth and prosperity beyond our expectations, we are showing a very ugly side to our character. Racism in Ireland is endemic.
This is what the Commission will be judged on.
This very afternoon we have had a debate on workers who suddenly find themselves unemployed. We now hope to be able to solve these problems.
This issue is before Parliament at the moment and there will be other directives dealing it, which will also come under the legal base of Article 152 which gives Parliament full competence in the areas of codecision.
Surely we are all familiar with the Treaty of Rome and know that one of the four freedoms is the freedom of capital movement.
During the debate, a number of important issues linked to our disease-control strategy have been raised including compensation.
The Council has done well to lay open this subject to Europe and to the world and if we do not set down these values in a Charter of Fundamental Rights, in a European Constitution, then we shall construct a Europe without a solid, lasting base.
A point to consider regarding the new rules concerns the economy of the outermost regions and islands, all of which must be protected.
We have listened to the Commission' s explanations about the long internal process involved in transposing legislation. This has simply left us with an image of an exasperating bureaucracy.
Let us call them the first three subjects of the IGC.
This is what is meant by the term "close-to-zero" .
However, we cannot accept amendments such as those that refer to the issue of costing water, granted that in my country a high proportion of the users are farmers.
Even if I too agree with the contents of Amendments Nos 79 and 106, these go beyond the commitments under OSPAR, and I cannot therefore approve these Amendments.
We have also asked Parliament' s own DG IV to prepare a systematic study of these measures for the Committee on Fisheries.
I do not accept that a practical transposition problem should give rise to changing the law.
We will examine all that material carefully before making a legislative proposal for a new regulation.
This is perhaps an appropriate moment to welcome to the official gallery, a delegation of four members of the Moroccan parliament, led by Mr Brahim Rachidi, Deputy Speaker of the Chamber of Representatives.
Indeed that was the idea behind it.
It would be to our credit were the European Parliament to roundly condemn these events and support all proposals tabled in order to ensure that the rights of immigrants in Spain and throughout the Union are respected.
Parliament, therefore, can take credit for a successful lobbying campaign to put URBAN back on the agenda and get the Commission and Council to make a U-turn.
As far as the proposal for a new provision limiting investments in the same group to 15% is concerned, I would like to stress that, apart from the fact that this limit is too low, the text does not define the concept of a group. This concept does not exist under European law because it is impossible to implement and equally impossible to control in practice.
It looked, as Mr Schulz once aptly said in committee, as if the Council understood the area of freedom, security and justice to mean an area in which the Council has free rein, security from Parliament and the right to do and order as it will.
One example is the use of peat.
Report (A5-0020/2000) by Mrs Cederschiöld, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the Draft Framework Decision on increasing protection by penal sanctions against counterfeiting in connection with the introduction of the euro (5116/1999 - C5-0332/1999 - 1999/0821(CNS))
This is the only answer I can give you on the link between large-scale energy transmission networks and the Structural Funds.
We see this, now that the government of one Member State is being joined by a party which, as is known, does not respect all these values.
We are contributing to programmes in the region which have some ecological impact.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
For despite these directives and frequent declarations about the effort which must be made in terms of water protection, when we look at the state of the environment in Europe we can see that the objectives have not been achieved.
Mr Solana, it has been said many times in this House that prevention is better than cure.
This is undoubtedly the greatest priority at the moment: search and rescue transport and emergency humanitarian aid, including food aid.
Firstly, fishery production and the conservation of marine life and resources are two sides of the same coin.
The first concerns this Parliament.
Financial instrument for the environment (LIFE)
Finally, I should like to refer to the tourism which gives citizens contact with the outside world and democracy.
In any event, I, on behalf of the Council, do not wish to make a value judgement about any specific military action carried out by NATO.
If nothing helpful is forthcoming in the course of a parliamentary debate planned for clarification and orientation, then we must at least abstain from voting.
Under no circumstances will we concede ground which we have won over the past few months, which we believe to be in the interests of openness and transparency.
The project has been long and problematic.
The single market extending across that enlarged Union is going to be a colossal achievement.
I am delighted that we are all heading in the same direction in this respect.
It is not just that we need to speak out in the world with one voice; it is what we want to say with this voice that it is important.
I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs Mr von Wogau, Mr Langen, Mr Rapkay and Mr Jonckheer, as well as the Commission, for their excellent cooperation.
We should define the universal service precisely, establish efficiency criteria and then issue invitations to tender.
As various Members have already commented, we often encounter situations where there is an enormous contradiction between our intentions in terms of development and cooperation policy and the damage we inflict with our other sectoral policies, whose objectives run counter to development in those countries.
That has not been done in Ireland although a certain liberalisation has taken place and has not been impeded by the national government.
It was quite slow in getting off the ground there, but it was slow because it was necessary to have the local people themselves develop these programmes.
And who is not in favour of security, freedom and justice?
So whatever remained standing after the air attacks is now being destroyed by the supposedly disarmed KLA, under the very nose of KFOR, whose role as an occupying force is becoming increasingly apparent.
Secondly, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia should be encouraged, with adequate financial support, to gradually link its currency to the euro as the first step towards the Europeanisation of the whole Macedonian economy, with the additional aim of eliminating any possible corruption in the banking system.
In order to ensure that at least 50% of the energy mix comes from renewable energy sources, it is not enough to deal with a few hot spots that will be more profitable in the short term.
What we need, therefore, is to promote specific policies.
He is a driven man, a competent man.
According to the Commission, external policy can succeed, provided everyone knows exactly who is in charge!
That is why, today, we must be understanding alchemists, concerned for our environment.
At a forthcoming review of these programmes, it ought to be established that the EU' s efforts are to be concentrated upon cross-border tasks and adapted to the possible enlargement of the EU.
A number of issues naturally emerge as additional potential targets of Community support in the coming phase of the peace process - among them, helping to consolidate a Golan settlement both in terms of contributing to security arrangements and supporting demining and the rebuilding of communities in the Golan Heights.
Similarly, the idea that the euro has fostered a consensus on wage moderation is not really borne out by the repeated nervous orders issued by the European Central Bank to the trade unions which are deemed to be too demanding.
I believe it will set the trend for future discussions concerning the precautionary principle.
We want people to understand and learn to appreciate differences.
This report is very good and our Group supports it.
The next item is the report A5-0035/2000 by Mr Gallagher, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation amending for the fourth time Regulation (EC) No 1626/94 laying down certain technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources in the Mediterranean and for the fourth time Regulation (EC) No 850/98 for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms (COM(1999) 552 - C5-0040/2000 - 1999/0222(CNS)).
However, they could not apply Article 81(3), which, to a certain extent, prevented the coherent application of Article 81(1).
We believe it is necessary to coordinate the development objectives and management mechanisms of actions 2 and 3, financed by LEADER, with those of other actions financed by other Community programmes relating to interregional and international cooperation and partnership, such as INTERREG, SAPAR, PHARE, TACIS and MEDA, in the same areas.
The comments contained within, under eight headings, are an integral part of the discharge, the implementation of which forms the basis of our decision.
It suffered enormously from the influx of refugees during the Kosovo war.
In the streets of Madrid it has killed a general, Quintana Lacaci, who defended democracy at the time of the attempted coup of 1981.
This is why I advocate a monitoring centre for coherence which makes this apparent.
Thank you, Mr Nogueira, for your explanation.
I will try to respond to the debate on the basis of information provided by Commissioner Bolkestein.
This is the crux of the matter.
In addition, car manufacturers need to produce and build these cars in such a way as to facilitate simple dismantling and re-use.
It is worrying that the bombing has aggravated the situation, and we should recognise that it was a mistake on the part of NATO and the European Union to take such action.
Thank you, Commissioner Kinnock.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for this excellent report.
Concerning the most remote regions, it was only quite belatedly that we received the memorandums from the various governments, but this is not necessarily an excuse, just an explanation.
Although a study produced by the Commission would doubtless be interesting, we do not need another to add to those already available.
I do not think Parliament will be disappointed by what we will propose.
It is the humane face of Europe...
Currently, both sides seem to have accepted that nothing will be agreed until everything is agreed.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the European Union played an active role in the 55th session of the Human Rights Commission held in Geneva in March and April 1999.
The voices in favour of its amendment were unanimous.
The information problem, which Mr Bonde just referred to, is treated like a straw in the wind, with the Commission seeming to restrict information to us, as citizens and as parliamentarians, although we have the right to it under the Treaties.
We cannot just refer to vertical legislation and say that at some point we will need another law.
Fourthly, increasing audiences for culture, with particular emphasis on attracting young people to culture and, fifthly, protecting the common cultural heritage on the European scale as well as the history of the peoples of Europe, and making them better known.
We talked about the importance of the Commission developing a series of headline goals for non-military actions related to crises and, if I may say so, if ever there was a case where that is relevant, it is the disaster which has overwhelmed Mozambique.
Mr President, I too would like to offer my congratulations to the rapporteur.
The Spanish Vice-Presidents of the European Parliament were represented.
Only last week, in the UK parliament at Westminster the newly-elected MP from our European Free Alliance partners, Plaid Cymru, the party of Wales, made his maiden speech on that subject.
Does section 11(1) conceivably authorise the following practice.
First of all, regarding the remarks of Mr Crowley, who asked whether the second proposal could not simply consist in taking over a pure ISD approach; the objections of the Commission to that proposal would be the following: such an approach would pose difficulties which would arise from two different authorisations which may even involve different authorities and non-consistent sets of rules; moreover there would be no provisions whatsoever on conflicts of interest.
Parliament has contributed greatly to improving this instrument.
This would then apply until the re-assessment procedure has been completed.
The second point relates to the future and the publication of the Commission' s White Paper on environmental liability which is designed to ensure that the polluter pays principle applies in future and to ensure that we are better able to enforce European environmental legislation properly.
I do believe that reform with all it implies, including the new mechanisms, will very strongly facilitate changes of that kind.
This really is a subject that is close to the citizen, so it is a pity it is being debated at such a late hour.
In particular, we need to reconsider the role of the European Union in this area, as I am certain that one of the Union' s strategic objectives must be to promote a new and more equitable world order. It is therefore essential to review the present process of globalisation, bearing in mind the underlying approach and dominant interests on which it is based, and to consider the enormous and damaging effect that it is having on the less developed countries, particularly in this context.
I believe we should give the postal service a chance to adapt to new trends.
We would like to ensure that there is a reference to this as early as the recitals and that the period within which the Council has to make a decision - which is not clearly worded - is set at a maximum of three months.
Surely we have learnt this much from the events surrounding the Leonardo affair, when the internal examiners in the relevant Directorate-General issued warnings, but these were neither heeded nor passed on.
Why was it not possible to come to the rescue with a larger number of helicopters sooner?
I believe that the latter means the possibility of employment for those who require it, but also decisive action in support of the socially disadvantaged.
Water is a prerequisite for human life.
Mr President, the original version of the Giorgos Katiforis report had the great merit of making strong recommendations, based on the precise observations of the Commission report on the economic situation in Europe, for a European Union strategy capable of giving continuity and stability to the sustainable development prospects emerging this year for all the countries of our continent.
At my hearing last September, I promised speedy delivery of this White Paper.
The Council is consulting us and Parliament is giving its opinion.
There is also an argument for introducing early notification obligations as well as having this card.
The production line was invented about a hundred years ago, I believe, by Henry Ford and what we are proposing to do here is to create a sort of nineteenth century production line in reverse - to dismantle vehicles, to take the pieces apart and seek to recycle them.
We want to build a Europe with a sustainable and healthy environment.
Proposals made by the panels are then presented to the Commission and the Commission in turn makes recommendations to the contracting parties.
What remains of the concept of what a company should be like now is naturally very relevant: whether it is merely the property and toy of shareholders, or whether it is a more broadly based stakeholder society, which is meant to guarantee continuity for staff, consumers, suppliers and the local population and has, in addition, a social function.
This financial instrument is, furthermore, deliberately democratic since it is accessible to both governmental and non-governmental organisations.
We can clearly and almost clinically see that legal cooperation is now no longer enough to fight against this fraud whether it originates from inside or outside the Community. This is why we have proposed the creation of a European public prosecutor who could, having investigated a case from start to finish, then have this investigated and ruled on by the most appropriate national court.
Transfers are defined as the transfer of surface water between different territorial areas.
Our attention is no longer focused exclusively on internal borders but also on external ones.
A number of developing countries grow sugar cane for sugar production.
Now we come to the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts which we already had the opportunity to welcome and briefly debate last September.
Agriculture and health: we see the issue differently from the Commission: in our view there are no consumers: there are only citizens who want to eat healthy food - products which are not designed for competitiveness but health, quality and respect for the environment.
Meanwhile, Mr van Hulten has been inundated with amendments, more than 100 amendments in the first round.
After investigating these complaints between 1998 and the beginning of 1999 - during which time the project did not receive support from the Structural Funds - the Commission became convinced, in the summer of 1999, that the relevant protection criteria had been observed during the building of the harbour.
In practice, only 9 cases were rejected, 94% of the cases that the Commission had to process were not dealt with formally but by means of unpublished, non-legally binding administrative communications or on account of the expiry of deadlines, which clearly shows that the work of the Commission is subject to time-related, staffing and financial limitations in this age of globalisation and EU enlargement
However, housing is specifically excluded.
We are committed to dialogue and ready to work together with all those eager to find a democratic settlement for the Basque country.
In other words, whenever I get the chance, I shall take everything out of the annexes and cram it into the legislative text.
This plan is designed to increase its energy potential by 2%.
In the same category of ideas, it is essential that Member States fulfil their obligation to be accountable to the Commission for the aid granted to their steel companies.
That is absolutely crucial.
The increase in vulnerable areas, both wet and dry, inequalities between countries, inequalities between different regions within countries and unusual climatic, economic, geographical and geological events are all the evidence we need. However, these must not lead to competition distortions within the Community.
I do not feel in a position to accept Amendments Nos 12 and 13.
Thank you, Mr Davies.
Finally, after Seattle, do you really think you can advocate increasing the role of the WTO?
Additionally, and this is for me the most important area of all, an area where we are breaking new ground, we will, soon after we have put forward our proposals on a rapid reaction facility, be bringing forward proposals as well on non-military headline goals.
To date, however, Mr Kouchner only has about 2 000 police troops at his disposal.
The first is that we need a mature dialogue between the Council and the European Parliament.
The debate is closed.
In conclusion, since I do not think I need to say much, given the unanimity that exists here, I just want to make one brief remark to the President-in-Office. I think that there are some peculiarities in his position.
It is a pity that this very well constructed explanatory statement by Mr Di Pietro could not be conveyed in the telegrammatic five minutes he had here today.
The European Union' s position on this is crystal clear, and I do not think it is worthwhile second-guessing particular phrases in the Council' s conclusions or in any other statement.
As a last resort, we would ask the ÖVP to look into alternatives.
Madam President, I shall speak against this proposal on the grounds of a principle which I consider absolutely vital with regard to observance of the Treaties, and with particular regard to Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
If the limits are exceeded because of a one-sided quest for effectiveness, then the legitimising basis of the European Union will suffer.
Nor can we ignore the value of such a decision in demonstrating the consistency and autonomy of the European Union and the fact that it does not bow to pressure from any quarter.
Nevertheless, I should like to say a few words on the report and express a view on a number of points.
Nobody nowadays disputes that women should participate in political life, in the parties and in the institutions but it is not easy to agree on how this participation should be achieved.
Mind you, even the Resolution of the Finnish Council Presidency in June was not the best result that could have been done achieved.
I am very indignant about the fact that it is so difficult to get any documents handed over on this matter.
If the President-in-Office has noticed, almost half the questions he has had to answer today relate to Kosovo.
We want an area of freedom, security and justice for the citizens of Europe, not against them.
There should be no reservation, no reservation whatsoever about a legislative commitment on the representation of women at the centres of power.
Finally, I would say this in relation to the observation about including legislation in annexes and the observation that we must achieve an effective balance between Parliament having a full say and yet at the same time our having speedy resolutions, speedy legislation and speedy amendments to existing legislation.
You have spoken to Mr Gil-Robles. I have received an e-mail from a former colleague, Pierre Pradier, who is in Pristina at the moment.
As is known, this has led to a state monopoly in Sweden which, in itself, is at odds with Union legislation.
We have heard one speaker in favour and one against.
The content of the agreements has progressed steadily between Lomé I and Lomé VI.
I come from a country which manufactures 50% of the cars in the EU and it is precisely the free collection of end-of-life cars which is so financially onerous and unacceptable.
This sounds perfectly feasible. We shall therefore see if we can extend the urgent debate by a half hour, considering the withdrawal of Mrs Cederschiöld' s report.
What are we actually seeking to achieve in embarking on an Intergovernmental Conference?
This reminds us that tourism cannot be regarded as the poor countries' petroleum industry, because it requires huge investment in structures, infrastructures, entrepreneurship, professional expertise, social services and training; that the tourist industry is essential for the equilibrium of many regions as it provides a direct source of employment and a market for all local productive activities: agriculture, small firms in the industrial and craft sector, transport, services, retail sector, training, etc; that the development of the Community' s tourist industry is closely linked to its sustainability with regard to the Community objectives; that the varied geography and historical, cultural and environmental heritage must be protected and exploited.
And yet we disregard local development agencies and prefer to negotiate with national governments and subsidise northern NGOs at the expense of local programmes and southern NGOs.
This does not just mean administrative changes but also structural changes; in other words we must create instruments which are actually capable of affording protection under criminal law.
This is all I am talking about here, just that.
This is why, when it comes to social protection, we are opposed to schemes copied from the Luxembourg process which run counter to this rationale: broad economic guidelines, then convergence criteria and, finally, social issues, dealt with as the last resort.
In rural areas where we have real fears that these services really can no longer be cost-effective, I believe the decision should be taken by a regulator who can lay down fair and decent tendering conditions, so that all the market forces, and of course the existing postal services too, can compete here and so that we can pursue the best and most efficient consumer strategies.
I would point out that there is no European legal system, but that a different legal system exists in each Member State.
Three serious issues were discussed: the first was the first discussion on the fifth programme for women, of which I gave an initial evaluation, the second issue was the report by Mr Busquin on the investigation into the participation of women in research and science, and the third involved Mr Kinnock, who reported to the working group on efforts being made to take account of the gender equality dimension in the overall reforms currently taking place in the Community.
Nevertheless, I would point out to the Commission that, as far as the Socialist Group is concerned, there has been a change of priorities.
The proposals for a Council regulation on the collection and management of fisheries data and for a Council decision on a financial contribution in this respect are both very welcome.
Would this be in the interests of Europe's citizens?
This is a major task.
Allow me also - listen carefully to what I am saying now, because I have heard this reiterated in the debate - allow me to comment on the issue of vintage and "cherished" cars as mentioned in Amendments Nos 3, 7, and 9, section 2, and 35.
This report seems to me to be redundant, long-winded, confused and lacking in accuracy in the terms used.
It is a step in the right direction, even if one wonders why in heaven, with what right and with what respect for our citizens, we are further bolstering the monopoly of the English language in all documents distributed throughout Europe.
After having restricted, on its own initiative, its participation in the IGC to two minor seats, Parliament is now giving up the right to add to the agenda for this IGC.
So this means that we are developing a new sector and new employment and doing the environment a huge favour into the bargain.
We will furnish more detailed material relating directly to all the issues concerning coherence.
As a farmer and Member of Parliament, I have always endeavoured not to look at agriculture in isolation but to see rural areas as a whole.
The AIDS problem in Africa is not only a private or public health issue but a development one.
This is a good thing, moreover, and the result has probably exceeded what the authors had hoped for.
The Commission and Member States also have to be encouraged to support projects which can help develop understanding and partnership between the different nations in the region.
Mr President, Mrs Stenzel, ladies and gentlemen, before addressing the EQUAL report itself, I should like to make a point of principle in connection with the employment guidelines on which the report is based.
. (FR) As an MEP and, more importantly, as a consumer, I welcome the European Commission' s proposal as a step in the direction of enhanced food safety within the European Union.
However, it goes without saying that the Commission adheres to the principle of regular political dialogue with the European Parliament on all aspects of administrative reform.
I do not think so.
It is really the loss of life that makes this particular disaster an extraordinary one by European standards.
Why do we reject the Tobin tax and consider it so questionable?
This is why it is important to try to find a legal frame of reference which can adapt to the new requirements of a global economy.
Moreover, only minimal amounts were made available to us: we should bear in mind that the Commission communication indicated amounts totalling EUR 4 700 000 000 over the last five years, which corresponds to the cost of building 400 kilometres of motorway.
We also presented a communication on common procedures concerning asylum and a recommendation for a decision authorising the Commission to open negotiations with Iceland and Norway on an agreement designed to extend the rules applied by the Member States of the European Union under the Dublin Convention to those two countries.
Even stronger still, however, is the sense of insecurity, the feeling of being unprepared in a new world that is moving forwards, a world which is completely changing, where globalisation will even end up changing our points of reference.
Amendment No 43 seeks to ensure that by the year 2010 water pricing policies in Europe must provide adequate incentives to use water efficiently.
We therefore all agree on the established facts, and the draft regulation and the report are going in the right direction.
We will be doing a general disservice to the objectives of this important directive if we are not able to provide it with the necessary flexibility and adaptability to guarantee compliance with its provisions.
I am not a warmonger, but if we do not have soldiers to stop the criminals in Kosovo, then what is the point in having soldiers at all?
There are no plans to follow the procedure involving concurrent statements in Parliament in connection with such decisions.
The supposed progress achieved in 1999 and mentioned by the report only occurred in the Dublin Conventions and Schengen Agreements and a further action plan from Tampere which all restrict the rights of immigrants.
Question No 10 by (H-0053/00):
Mr Nogueira, we note your interest and concern about this subject but your Group is not down to speak and I must abide by the Rules of Procedure.
I ask the Commission what can be done to speed up implementation in this particular area.
They are like a snake biting its own tail.
Do we want to shorten the deadlines proposed by the Council for this directive?
We are all very much anticipating this, but the facts are still missing at this time when we already have to decide whether or not to grant discharge.
Adjournment of the session
Starvation and epidemics seem inevitable.
We are again going to have to go through the same sort of exercise.
In the English version we refer to pharmaceutical and scientific organisations.
We need to clarify the liability for transactions.
When will we debate that?
Scientific studies are now no more than a formality: water will be the main resource at stake in years to come, starting tomorrow.
Today, the new frontiers of European integration are political frontiers: common foreign and security policy, justice and internal security, and - to a lesser extent - the crucial question of the fundamental political values on which our coexistence is based.
Fourthly, and finally, the prevention of inter-ethnic conflicts between States must be our constant concern and to some extent this can be achieved either through a strong and authoritative diplomatic offensive or with the proposals I have set out.
(Applause from the right) It is via diplomacy, persuasion, knowledge, and solidarity, and not with threats or via anti-constitutional means that the institutions can ensure respect for themselves and for principles.
You did not fully answer the last part of my question on large-scale energy transmission networks.
The directive states that the polluter should pay and that the cost is to be borne mainly by the manufacturer in accordance with the principles to be found in the EU' s treaty concerning the manufacturer' s liability.
People in the poor countries are beginning to despair.
The proposed amendment is technical and cannot be interpreted as having as its primary objective the protection of public health.
I am optimistic that we shall succeed.
Do not be fooled by the car manufacturers!
The preparatory work has largely consisted of a viable balance between increasing the efficacy and growth of the European investment markets and preserving a sufficient level of protection for consumers who buy fund units.
I shall remind you that the Commission is going to be approving the Objective 2 zoning plans for France, Sweden, Austria and Luxembourg tomorrow.
This is nothing to write home about and means that the convergence strategy must focus on the best approaches.
Sometimes within the Community we do not actually have an awareness of what is happening in other countries.
The European Union has played a key role in developing the border county region in Ireland over the years.
All on the same political planet together and making sure that there is some harmony between what we promised the world and what we can actually deliver.
The truth is though, that the Commission' s guidelines do not fully meet these objectives.
I believe that Turkey completely recognises the standards and the criteria of the convention on nuclear safety and the non-proliferation treaty, but there is no doubt that there are concerns in the public in Europe and I think it is quite right to discuss them here in Parliament.
Values should take precedence over power.
Instead of always following behind the United States, in Seattle, in Kosovo, in Iraq, perhaps the Europe of Brussels could suggest, over and above the international fishing organisations that exist in the North Atlantic, in the Pacific, over and above the regulation of tuna, cod or other things, that Europe should take the initiative and organise an international conference on fishing, a kind of Montego Bay of the fisheries resources which would be held between Peruvians, Japanese, Canadians, Russians, Europeans, and we could manage the fisheries resources scientifically as an asset common to humanity.
They can also be consulted on the Commission's Internet website.
I wonder whether he can say whether he considers his reply to be compatible with the failure by the Commission to take the French Government to the European Court of Justice on the application of France's Loi et Vin, which effectively prevents single market rules applying to the sale of alcohol products in France?
I am referring to the sixteenth century when the discovery of America turned everything upside down.
So on the basis of the Treaty as it stands today, the EQUAL initiative is structured in that way.
The new programme will, I am sure, in terms of its structure and organisation based on transparency, efficiency and balance, prove to be an instrument as successful as it is essential to our measures.
There is clearly a more ambitious goal.
That concludes the explanations of vote.
It is clear from statements over the past years that Jörg Haider and the Freedom Party do not respect human rights and fundamental freedoms with respect to third country nationals and minority groups living in Austria.
The guiding thread running through all the aspects of the reform of competition policy, which we shall have the opportunity to address together, aims to ensure more effective protection of competition, reduce the bureaucratic burden weighing down businesses and take decision-making processes closer to the European people.
Do not believe for one moment that your proposed reform of the budget will disguise the limitations of the Community financial system.
Construction of this type of ship was halted at the time because the risk of rusting was especially high.
One of the main differences in the comparison made recently between Europe and the United States was not so much job mobility or risk capital, as women' s involvement in economic life, an issue that has much more prominence in the United States than in Europe. This is a field where Europe has, nevertheless, always been in the vanguard.
This is one of the aims that LIFE-Environment must achieve. Thirdly, the fact that the common position has for the first time introduced upgrading and planning for coastal areas as one of LIFE-Environment' s priorities is an extremely positive step.
We hope that this new climate means we have achieved the result we were seeking, which is greater transparency and better information about the decisions of the Commission as an executive.
This is the Commission' s own survey.
I am delighted to welcome a delegation of the Hong Kong Legislative Council to Parliament.
Is it the product of mere foolishness or, more probably, of a deliberate strategy, which is the same throughout the world?
Firstly, Finland and Denmark are subject to exemptions to the basic rule of the free movement of goods until 2003.
So what we are dealing with is not just the consequences of conflict but the consequences of years of neglect and chronic under-investment.
Mr President, let me begin by congratulating Mr Corrie on his excellent and comprehensive report.
What we need to look out for in this context is how matters develop in connection with the harbours in Gaza, the northern transit route between Gaza and the West Bank, further releases of political prisoners and implementation of the financial commitments.
In order to ensure that we have proper postal services on the European Union level, it is essential to put an end to the policy of closing down local post offices, reducing the number of deliveries and overworking postal staff.
That is why we need transparency.
But I - and many Members with me - also have to note that the Council is consistently absent from this debate.
I think that this will be problematic.
If we allow Europe to be watered down as a result of enlargement, we will drown in our own political quagmire.
The Netherlands is located downstream, in a delta, which means that the quality of the surface water which heads our way is of key importance.
Mr President, my reason for wanting to contribute to this debate is because the URBAN initiative, in Ireland in particular, has been quite successful and I am keen that the European Union make a further contribution in that area.
The basic understanding which many of us now share is that we need to introduce environmental taxation to encourage conservation, to use the carrot-and-stick approach to make best use of our assets so that we do not add to the pollution or loss of a valuable resource like water.
That therefore leaves only the amendment proposed under paragraph 3.
That said, the differing approach adopted in the guidelines, which are not geared to geographical objectives, but rather to policy areas, can be considered as positive.
Efficiency: I am convinced that this reform will strengthen the protection of competition within the single market rather than weaken it.
As regards state aid, it is essential to ensure that regulations are not made more complex, and the introduction of a public register, where all aid would be recorded, does not seem advisable to us since this onerous commitment would quite naturally run counter to the attempts to simplify bureaucratic constraints.
It is now a fact that in order to attain this goal, rural areas need to see the creation of new jobs, which are no longer solely connected with agriculture, in the traditional sense - although this sector is important for the protection of the environment and the preservation of biodiversity - but also, for instance, in rural tourism, sport and cultural activities, environmental projects, SMEs, services, and so on.
I feel we can still afford to maintain a postal service, even if our post offices operate like businesses.
This legal framework is fairly advanced, at least if you compare it with what is happening at worldwide level and the Member States, under the supervision of the Commission, should endeavour to ensure that Community law is actually applied.
This is very costly and it also causes very great social problems.
Mr Sjöstedt, the answer that I gave was the only answer possible.
It is the policy of the Commission to promote an open and wide debate on the Charter of Fundamental Rights, not only with non-governmental organisations but also with the citizens in a project as far-reaching as the Charter is.
The forthcoming Lisbon Summit on these issues - dissemination of technology, employment - will be a decisive summit.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have not signed this compromise motion for a resolution for two reasons.
Talks in Austria on forming a government
We need an independent judiciary - this would certainly be difficult to establish -, we also need funds for the office of High Commissioner for Human Rights.
Question No 9 by (H-0798/99):
We must, therefore, ensure that at the Intergovernmental Conference we discuss how to consolidate the democratic bases of the Union and how to strengthen - and this has been discussed in the House even today, with regard to the situation in Austria - the system of principles, values and rights underpinning the Union and the role of the political institutions of the Union, with regard, among other things, to running the economy.
The scientists and the fishermen both agree that something has to be done.
Modern economic science has provided an exceptional instrument with the Tobin proposal and others, which we will be able to use if we have the political will to make a start.
In the designation of local URBAN programmes we need to make good use of local indicators and statistics on deprivation and health to enable us to more effectively target the most affected areas.
The honourable Member raised the question.
What we are talking about here are the local nuts which are as important to the people collecting them and making a living out of them in Burkina Faso as coconuts for farmers in Ghana.
The agreement with Macedonia should be seen as a door opening to the European Union, allowing this country to join, even though this will not be the case in the foreseeable future.
We do not want to build a Europe of cities alone.
The situation in Kosovo has taught us a lot, for example that we should provide ourselves with a military capacity for crisis management, an idea which has already been translated into practical action.
Nevertheless, it raises some very basic questions.
The Minutes of 3 February were originally distributed in Brussels so perhaps this is why some Members did not receive them.
I should also like to thank Mr Böge for his work on this issue.
There would have to be an interaction at scientific level.
During the months that I have been working on this report, one very clear demand has emerged, both from industry and from those who represent the consumer.
.
However, we must ensure that competition distortions are not created, as highlighted by Mr Kindermann and Mrs Auroi.
If this 'feedback' mechanism, which gives users the opportunity to make choices, were hampered by measures such as the Tobin tax, mistaken decisions might be made that turned out to be so costly in terms of the economic consequences that the tax would never be able to make up for it.
It befits the Commission to express its gratitude towards the rapporteur.
Thus, for the consumer, for the environment and for the new jobs to be created in recycling, the Council' s common position definitely must not be amended. It is, as it stands, perfectly acceptable.
We support these critical remarks, and I must therefore state that it would seem quite absurd, against this background, to vote in favour of approving the accounts.
I agree, however, with the statement in Amendment No 2 saying that no compensation has been made payable to salmon farmers.
People should have clearly-defined powers to take decisions for which they should also be accountable.
It must get as close as possible to the people, where they live and where they have their roots.
(PT) Mr President, I would like to make a few very brief comments on behalf of the Council presidency, and first to remind you that the work done by the presidency is above all about coordination and about seeking common positions on initiatives that the fifteen Member States are to approve in the Council. Our experience of previous sessions of the Human Rights Commission suggests - precisely by virtue of this coordinating role played by successive presidencies - that the European Union is very much able to uphold its status as a body with its own policy within the Commission, and it is important to maintain this.
Nor was any mention made of information policy and communications catering to the needs of our citizens.
. (DA) The Left' s Members of the European Parliament attach importance to the fact that, with today' s decision, Parliament has NOT supported the fourteen prime ministers' diplomatic sanctions against Austria.
I hope my proposal will be taken into consideration in tomorrow' s vote.
We cannot afford to make a mistake, for we know for a fact that we shall not be able to turn the clock back and that in the event of an imbalance, the firm will know how to tackle it: jobs will be lost, services will be reduced, the dead wood will be removed and we already know which areas will be considered dead wood.
Mr President, today' s debate comes under the sign of the snail, not because I ate such excellent snails here in Strasbourg yesterday but because the snail is a symbol of slow progress.
I do not know what the metric equivalent is.
It is very difficult for a Commissioner to try to work in an area where there are dozens of different organisations whose representativeness needs to be ascertained every time.
We hope that the debate at the beginning of this afternoon, the Commissioner' s knowledge of the situation in Mozambique and the visit by Mr Nielson will lead to a major effort being made by all sides to help Mozambique.
By accepting Cuba into the ACP community we will be demonstrating that our Europe is not involved in the shameful process of 'playing but not paying' , and that, when we get indignant about absurdities like the Helms-Burton Act, we are not being hypocritical but are ready to act and take all the consequences.
On the other hand, my group will applaud Amendment No 14 from the group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
. I should first like to thank the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and its rapporteur, the committee chairman, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, for examining the Commission's proposal.
The Commission is not in fact today a European government.
If people need to move at all, they need to be given a viable alternative.
We have some concern that the resolution does not give enough consideration to them and to ways in which their interests could receive specific protection.
I think it is important for the unions too to operate under uniform economic and social framework conditions so as to achieve the best results for their members on a basis of justice, fairness and solidarity.
What conclusions has the Commission already drawn or what conclusions is it going to draw?
Mr President, as chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I should like to congratulate the Commission, and in particular Commissioner Loyola de Palacio, for her reaction to this incident, which has really shaken the whole of Europe.
It is shameful!
The next item is the debate on the Council declaration on the establishing of the EU priorities for the next session of the UN Commission on Human Rights (20 March 2000), including the situation in China.
As I said earlier, there are always problems interpreting the directives of the European Commission both because they have a very general framework and because systems are very different from one country to another.
The second subject is flexibility and simplification.
There must always be a commitment to ensuring that we do not only build a Europe of the cities alone.
Finally, the Commission cannot approve Amendments Nos 1 and 33 for reasons to do with legal clarity; nor Amendment No 19, which the Commission considers to be unnecessary at this stage.
Regional disparities must be overcome if the internal market is to succeed and prosper.
We were offered three ministerial posts - you can read it for yourself in the newspapers - the very party that is being denounced as fascistic here!
We will come back again with material on these issues, because these problems, in one way or another, are here to stay, simply because development cooperation represents basically doing something in the world that is different from taking care of traditionally-defined trade interests, etc. We have to reconcile those different approaches.
Indeed it is accepting its responsibilities.
The most important recommendations related to the need to improve efforts to reform public sector services, where problems exist, improve the statistical monitoring system and apply preventive policies in accordance with guidelines 1 and 2 of the Action Plan for Employment.
This would at least mean 400 kg times 200,000 km less transportation.
Was it in fact necessary in this message to specifically offer his best wishes for success, or to say, "I am sure that you will demonstrate the same commitment as shown by your predecessors to liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms" , or indeed that he awaited productive and constructive cooperation?
We find you faithful to the principles which have always guided you, which have always guided your actions; your attachment to fundamental values.
This is an important point, as several speakers have suggested.
I mentioned this again to Commissioner Monti recently.
We will take account of the economic and social constraints of the ACP countries in two ways: firstly, through human and social development policies to accompany economic and trade reforms and, secondly, by helping the ACP states to become active players in the international economic and trade system through capacity-building and cooperation in multilateral forums.
At this stage it is more important to concentrate on assessing how we can use this process to steer Union regional policy, bearing in mind that the aim is to reduce regional inequality.
. (SV) We consider that the report contains many practical proposals, which we support, but we are very critical of the convergence approach which permeates the report.
There are two points which, in my opinion, deserve special attention on the part of the ELDR.
There are serious shortcomings in both areas and we have a great deal of work to do yet.
The next item is the report (A5-0019/2000) by Mr Di Pietro on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms, and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs on the draft Council Act establishing the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union.
This means not just an approach limited to development aid as the sole element of this policy, but a policy that also increasingly takes account of the role of other policies in the spheres of finance, trade and investment. Furthermore, this new model must respect the need for this integrated vision of development to be approached both from a global policy angle and also in the light of the various donor countries' own policies.
Things being what they are, nobody should dare any longer to dispute that the right of equality of men and women is a fundamental right of a democratic society, requiring equal treatment and equal opportunity be achieved by a package of active measures, including positive action.
We have to select locations by prioritising those which are most impoverished and needy, in accordance with the objectives set, that is to say, the social, economic, environmental and democratic management dimensions, as well as the relationship between them.
It has many remote mainland communities accessible only by road, sometimes served poorly by public transport, sometimes not at all.
The debate is closed.
Although in its preliminary draft budget the Commission entered the appropriations under heading 3 'Internal Policies' , Parliament created a new budget line B1-500 to finance the measures under discussion.
Nevertheless, we are aware that this situation is far from a satisfactory solution and that there are widespread repercussions in other areas of health care, apart from child health.
At the request of a French Member, Mr Zimeray, a petition has already been presented, which many people signed, including myself.
We therefore consider that the General Secretariat of the Council is at present making available to the public all essential information regarding the Council' s functions as a legislative body.
The free recovery system, for example, for old vehicles and raising the percentage to be recycled will increase recycling activities and the number of jobs this generates accordingly.
It is strange to claim that if everyone is not included it would be impossible to bring into effect.
The procedure in the field of competition is basically contained in Regulation 1762.
I particularly wish to stress that a new way of looking at these issues seems to be emerging, especially as regards trade, and it is certainly necessary to tackle this area.
On every occasion, and as recently as last October in this House, the Commission has highlighted the following basic positions.
We also have to practise what we preach in our own accessibility for imports from these countries. Parliament' s resolution on the WTO negotiations advocated a free import policy by the EU.
I say this because the failure of a bank is a problem for which any government can find a solution.
I understand the Commission' s own concern that distance may prove detrimental to effective cooperation.
Madam President, on behalf of the Members of Parliament who represent the Front national, the Vlaams Blok and the Movimento sociale italiano, I should like to ask the question: in this outrageous interference in internal Austrian affairs which the European Union has undertaken in contravention of general international law, in contravention of the Treaties, in contravention of morality, who is pulling the strings?
Human rights, which the EU embraces, are thus under threat, but the reactions to these events have brought to light the fact that there is no coherent framework in which an appropriate reaction can be formulated.
Firstly, I am very satisfied that the proposal for a directive as a whole increases the scope of investment funds for targeting capital at different instruments.
We must use the Berlin Summit aid appropriations and we must change the forestry policy implemented in most countries in the Union. That, however, is another problem altogether.
Why will neither the Council nor the Commission admit the fact?
What good are the current way in which we negotiate and the way in which the World Trade Organisation works, if they cause trade to increase on the one hand, but on the other, they create problems and above all cause this gulf between rich and poor countries to grow?
We want to see that follow-through to a much greater extent in future.
To focus on the input coming from the evaluations, I would mention the following problems: the objections of Community policy are too numerous and too vague and this adversely affects coherence.
While this represented significant progress at the time, the lack of specific terms governing the harmonisation of examination requirements proved to be a problem.
In light of this new international demographic class portrayed by experts at the UN, is it not about time you abandoned your traditional, conservative views on refugees and immigrants?
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Such a market organisation can reap better long-term prospects for the fishing industry.
Question No 44 by (H-0020/00):
Next week I will go to the Bundestag in Berlin.
I should also like to thank the rapporteur, Jan Andersson, for his report and for his very constructive contribution to the attempt to reconcile different positions and to secure support for his report.
In our opinion, each one must be free to make its own organisational choices.
It also has something to do with the newly awoken self-consciousness of this Parliament.
Quotas are not, therefore, the only parameter in the matter of environmental compatibility, just one of many.
This would constitute a clear goal against which progress could be measured.
We are monitoring the human rights situation through the reports of NGOs and the work of our human rights working group based in the EU embassies in Havana.
We have the traditions of solidarity in Europe and we have the experience of a better way of doing things.
Here in this Chamber, ladies and gentlemen, among you, I wish to assure you that in the negotiations for the programmes which are only just beginning - Mr Hatzidakis asked me a question about this - as far as Member States are concerned, your observations will certainly be taken into consideration.
It is therefore noticeable that 'equality', 'gender' and 'women' are barely mentioned in 'Shaping the New Europe'.
Thank you, Commissioner.
It is certainly possible, indeed it must be feasible for state aid to be given to small and medium-sized enterprises involved in research and development for the purpose of educating them in regional and environmental policy.
At the same time we must not lose sight of the Palestinian track.
Finally, the positive effects on national administrations of the system of management of the Structural Funds, the motives of officials in managing these funds, even if it is occasionally complicated, and the importance of once again making improvements to the procedures for the evaluation, follow-up and supervision of the Commission.
That concept I reject firmly, because competition is there for the citizens, and for them alone.
Thank you, Mrs Wallström.
Mr President, just before I went down into the Chamber, I received an e-mail with a quite emotional description from a Swedish woman who had chosen to spend New Year' s Eve on the French coast in Brittany instead of staying at home and celebrating with her relatives.
I welcome Parliament's support for that.
A technical working party made up of Council and Parliament representatives met in January 1999 to try and reconcile the positions of the two institutions.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Madam President, may I begin by extending a heartfelt thanks to all speakers and, above all of course, Mr Désir, for the fact that this debate is taking place this evening.
Not that we do so every week.
First of all, I am not sure if I got the interpretation properly, but I do not think it would be possible for someone as expert as Mrs Theato to talk about the abolition of independent financial control.
Coherence of policies at European level certainly means better coordination of Member States' policies with the European Union' s development policy.
I also consider it essential, for the sake of coherence, that existing legislation on scrapie, which is limited to the trade in ovine and caprine animals, should be incorporated in a single and complete set of new rules on TSE affecting all animals throughout the European Union, rules designed to prevent the consumption of foodstuffs or feedingstuffs.
We know that in the Netherlands there are authorised treatment centres in place to collect end-of-life vehicles and this process should be extended across the length and breadth of the European Union.
Your approach, which I am very much in favour of, since it is a coherent one, takes its inspiration from the issue of human rights; I wholeheartedly agree that we must embrace the cause of human rights.
It is essential that we get the mix right.
Those programmes themselves are intended to ensure that agriculture has a more soundly based position in those societies and does not consist simply of raping the land.
In the course of the 1980s, most markets in Europe underwent drastic deregulation. As a result, the national money and bond markets in particular developed very quickly over a period of a few years.
We assent to the main thrust of it, but we deplore the procedure and especially the fact that some groups have exploited this procedure to their advantage.
Mr President of the Commission, it is the new millennium and you made no mention whatsoever of the audio-visual area of Europe.
It will not be a philosophical Paper, but a practical Paper, full of focused proposals.
So, maintain as close contact as possible with our American allies and do not forget Norway, Turkey and Canada, either.
I should also like to stress the need to maintain a flexible approach to recycling, reuse and incineration, as far as the new particularly light materials are concerned which make it possible to reduce vehicle consumption and therefore emissions.
In this way, a small European reform may hide a medium-sized one, and a medium-sized one may hide a large one.
Mr President, we shall vote in favour of the GUE/NGL Group resolution because it denounces Total-Fina' s responsibility in this ecological disaster and I endorse the proposal that flags of convenience and the use of superannuated vessels should be prohibited, or that double hulls should be mandatory for oil tankers.
Such companies have always been around, but they used to be banned, whereas these days they are being heralded as progress.
They cover the prospect of the establishment of a free trade area between the European Union and them within ten years of the entry into force of the agreement.
Will the Commission remain silent?
This is the context that the rapporteur finds himself working in, making a legal link between the issue of GMOs and feedingstuffs, and noting that the latter "shall be authorised only if ... safe for human health and the environment" .
Secondly, to promote and stimulate economic activity and social life within these historic centres, within these old quarters of our cities.
I think many of the British Members will be voting against a large number of the amendments in the report.
As has already been mentioned here, there are indications - no proof, but clear indications - that the increase in storms world-wide has to do with the climate catastrophe.
I suggest that is too long, and we really must move forward much more quickly than that.
My question in the first place concerns the opportunities the disabled have to take advantage of freedom of movement in Europe.
I feel therefore that extending and enriching European citizens' participation in culture is a crucial task, one which justifies the efforts we make to achieve it, and this is the yardstick against which we must measure the success of our programme and of our Union.
I would like to ask, what is, then, the definition of a recognised minority?
Mr President, I should like to join Mr Barnier' s study group with the 700 trainees so that he has some people to discuss matters with.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I heartily welcome the fact that you have said that you wish to improve structures, in the aim of improving the credibility of the authorities.
I would therefore ask Members to examine my amendment carefully, and I hope that tomorrow we will achieve a result.
I think however that you will all recognise your own comments.
The European Union is discussing issues on which it hopes that China will take concrete measures, and on the basis of these discussions the presidency will convey to the Chinese authorities the message that the European Union hopes China will announce positive measures at the session on 25 February.
It will no doubt engage in a discussion both with Parliament and the Council on this state of affairs, which indicates that there are quite a lot of differences in excise rates between Member States.
That of course is not specifically addressed in the White Paper except for the reference to the fact that we will be putting in place provisions - and there are already some - relating to the issue of traceability.
The votes of the PPE-DE and the Liberals have very considerably diminished, and even reversed, the meaning of his message.
I do not want to see a two-tier European Union built.
We could do rather more, considering that we have made great commitments in reducing CO2 and greenhouse gases and to reduce dependence on energy imports.
I am sure that the Commission can accept the report which, as you know, was approved unanimously in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
However, the Department of the Marine, Louth County Council and Drogheda Corporation have allowed the development of a new port in the SPA and even the elimination of a mudflat at Stegrennan recently added to the SPA specifically at the Commission's insistence.
However, we cannot used simulators in cases relating to nuclear energy.
The ensuing document is both ambitious and bombastic.
For some time now, these abuses have meant that Parliament has been called upon to initiate measures that should serve to protect the European taxpayer' s money, which, when all is said and done, is what sustains the Union' s budget.
I understand this.
However, we must aim higher in the long-term, let there be no mistake about that.
By approving this amendment, we take account of the fact that it can be very cold in the northern parts of the European Union.
The Socialists recognise the importance of the investment fund industry to the development of our economies and to the allocation of resources.
I am therefore very proud to say that the skilled Austrian forestry workers are also prepared.....
We simply must realise that the directive on the table is a sound directive.
We are at the dawn of an age in which new legislation will be created, where the right to utilise intellectual property will clash head on with the public interest in terms of its dissemination and exploitation by the public at large.
For better or for worse, the fact that businesses become insolvent will become an increasingly common occurrence in our daily economic life.
The maritime world has great potential.
Some Member States have been in breach of the principle of subsidiarity and cut national regional funds when regional aid coming via the Union has been increased.
I would like to finish off by expressing the hope that the European Parliament will pick up once again its green image and will argue in favour of the close-to-zero option for dangerous chemical and hormone-deregulating substances by the year 2020.
The European Union seems to me to have finally emerged from the old paternalist, or frankly neo-colonialist, logic where those giving aid are all too eager to start giving lessons, following a formula our friend Michel Rocard is so keen on.
By blocking the demands of the financial industry, the European Parliament has the means to ensure that countries which have been turned into tax havens end up with their back against the wall.
This highlights the problems of coherence between the EU and the developing nations, which came to a head at the WTO talks in Seattle.
One final remark regarding the Internet and globalisation.
Europe has to guarantee every sort of freedom, including freedom to use one' s own money for the purposes of one' s own freedom and not to let others use it at will, others who make demands and then, when the break is made, refuse even to discuss the terms of the break, despite the fact that this is a break which has been declared unilaterally.
Tourism must be environmentally friendly if it is to continue to be an asset in the future.
It is perfectly astounding that the Union could have negotiated an agreement on behalf of the Member States in which a fundamental section is quite simply left blank.
In the action plan prepared by my Directorate-General, issues of equality play a very important role.
Legal proceedings have been initiated against Sam Rengie himself in order to lift his parliamentary immunity so that he can be brought to trial for treason.
If one puts all the money together and creates synergy then one can be a tiny bit satisfied, but then only a tiny bit.
Members, who, in the course of this debate, have properly praised Commission officials, who in the great majority and typically are of high integrity, hard-working and of great capability, are absolutely right in the comments that they have made.
But that sort of approach to policing alas is not what is required in Kosovo.
Wrongly applied competition policy may cause losses in the legal sphere and interfere with the right of ownership, which is an important and basic principle we should stand up for.
He has been a great friend to Parliament and a great servant of the Commission.
Nor can I understand the pressure applied by Parliament to include the funds in Chapter 7 for the pre-accession strategy. How can the whole of the European Union treat, in this way, two small countries situated on its periphery?
In the 20th century, water was merely a free evacuation and disposal system for poisonous substances, special waste, chemicals and so on. And we can already see the consequences!
- (FR) The vote which has just taken place in this Chamber is a historic one for it is the first time we have ever debated the internal political situation of one of our Member States with such anxiety.
My second point concerns the universal provision of services. What is happening on this score, how much does it cost, how does it work, how do you intend to organise it and what proposals do you have?
But I do not have a magic wand and I do not have my way.
Lastly then, Europol, which started its work in 1999. The Council approved a set of instruments, with which Parliament is familiar, to make Europol' s operations viable but, of course, the fundamental issues of democratic control and judicial control of Europol still remain, and these are issues which have naturally taken on a new dimension in view of the political decision taken in Tampere to reinforce Europol' s powers and, above all, to give it an operational dimension.
At international level, there is a great deal of support for treaties entering into force more swiftly.
I therefore appeal to the common sense of the Commission, the Council and this House so that, when voting, they do not impose uniformity on the different countries of Europe in areas where subsidiarity is required.
The framework directive on water is a necessary initiative.
This situation is loudly echoed in many sectors of the economy, and especially in the agricultural sector.
That is not always the case.
(Applause, heckling)
We are therefore in perfect and total agreement in our concern to achieve a positive outcome on this matter.
Instead, we must open the European institutions to the modern world by creating a flexible dynamic which respects nations.
This change has been devastating for the Windward Islands in particular which may be the only ACP state which will actually lose massively from the new arrangements.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
His position threatens to eclipse that of Commissioner Patten, as has been illustrated again today, in fact.
This is a complete revolution of the Commission' s way of working; it is a totally different method of organisation and it will require a totally different way of thinking.
Furthermore, the tripartite relationship of Commission, Council and Parliament must be restored to the sphere of foreign and security policy, where hitherto the Council was in sole charge far more than should have been the case, especially in relation to the crudely fashioned crisis management measures, for which the Commission alone has responsibility.
This may explain why we experienced more difficulties than anticipated in the Committee on Budgetary Control as regards this issue.
This is not in question.
We must establish dialogue with other forces in Angola, be attentive to the appeals of the Angolan church and encourage the emergence of other national institutions, national reconciliation and new cultural and political forces not engaged in war. These can then eventually free this country and this people from the armed fate which they have been experiencing for decades.
My amendments concern the frost-resistance ratings for tankers carrying these dangerous goods.
The legal obligation to achieve a zero input situation, i.e. to stop discharges within 20 years, would in fact mean a ban on all identified substances.
I am raising the issue just to reiterate Parliament' s position.
Mrs Maij-Weggen, given that we are talking about ensuring transparency in the IGC, it is clear how business will be conducted and the negotiations are starting right now.
I would like to widen the debate and include the situation in Mitrovica.
Projects implemented with support from the Union have had their effect watered down all too often by slow decision making and complicated administrative processes.
I think that you must have done so, because you have not mentioned it.
However, I would like to insist on certain points.
How can those affected be compensated?
Why could not mail collection and delivery in a certain region be put to negative tender in this manner?
Then we could have a solid dialogue in our everyday work.
Otherwise we will all, as elected representatives, be faced with more and more clamour from our citizens who are not getting access to quick and effective justice.
That is what we rely on when we advise people on what to do.
Mr President, like many others, I want to thank Mr Katiforis for an interesting report.
Unfortunately, we have recently witnessed the eradication of Serb, Romany, Turkish, and Croatian minorities in Kosovo and we are now wondering what will happen next.
This requires anticipation, timely preparation and careful management of these processes.
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
This matter should form part of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Action simply has not been taken.
In this connection, French speakers would speak of a "coup de chapeau" : in other words, I take my hat off to the EU.
Thank you, Mr Bowe, for your question.
A great deal of money for culture is also set aside in the Structural Funds, and this is something which we should definitely consider and bear in mind.
We are trying to manage a policy of catches and in so doing we are creating injustice.
Globalisation, free trade, and the hegemony of the WTO with its internationalist philosophy, were imperilling the very essence of the North-South dialogue.
This is not impossible.
Böge report (A5-0023/2000)
Ladies and gentlemen, we must challenge the monopoly the world' s speculative elite have on planning the world' s economy by remaining outside the tax system.
But we also recognise that some of the practices are outdated.
I therefore appeal formally to the Council and the Commission.
We must understand that the bigger picture is important when it comes to the environmental impact of cars.
Among those inspected and found to be in contravention of regulations last year, 15 were at least 20 years old and some were 30 and more.
Also, the Commission does not engage itself in finding out whether certain expenditure was real or virtual.
It has led to a growth in mergers, acquisitions and company restructuring and to gigantic sums being raised with increasing frequency on the financial markets.
Mr President, I would like to use the few seconds of speaking time to which I am entitled to point out, or remind, the representative of the Commission that, in Belgium, the government is currently pursuing a policy under which thousands and possibly tens of thousands of illegal aliens are being legalised and are to receive permanent right of residence, right to be reunited with their families, etc.
I would like to comment on one of the measures to be taken, which was mentioned by the Commissioner and some of my colleagues.
Much remains to be done, however, and I call on the Commission to be far tougher in exposing the subsidy junkies of Europe.
Mr President, I just want to take advantage of your welcome to the delegation by pointing out that the House also has the pleasure of welcoming the heads of the Austrian anti-racist associations who are honouring us with a visit.
Will that already begin to impact possibly in some form of amendment to the budget exercise which the Parliament will have to close in the last quarter of this year in respect of the budget for 2001 and can you already say whether the Commission anticipates such a procedure?
I wish at the outset to congratulate Mrs Attwooll on the preparation and presentation of her report.
It is essential that the decision should now be taken in March.
The overarching objectives of the structural funds such as job creation, boosting equality of opportunity, increasing the sustainability of employment and development, are only mentioned in passing.
The PPE-DE Group is requesting that this item be taken off the agenda.
Mr President, we should not forget that the main, strategic objective of the Structural and Cohesion Funds and of their coordination is to achieve economic and social cohesion.
Thank you, Commissioner Kinnock.
It is my feeling that these amendments aim to achieve a zero risk.
Pinochet in Chile is as relevant as Haider in Austria.
The objective of combating racism and xenophobia, explained in the Treaties, should be the objective of all European institutions and politicians.
That is a term that harks back to the time when the post was still the symbol of speed.
That resolution called for the European Parliament to be involved in drawing up the planned measures and urged that the reliability of impact studies regarding liberalisation should be improved.
With regard to URBAN, I should like to conclude with a final observation.
If it should become apparent that one or more classification companies have provided reports by way of favours then they should be struck off the list of authorised classification companies.
If you apply the existing principle of digressive proportionality, six seats for every state and then one more seat for every half a million inhabitants, you already have the situation where Luxembourg with 367,000 people has more Members in this Chamber than Wales, which is a partly self-governing region of the United Kingdom.
Very well, I shall do so.
The refusal of the European Parliament to grant discharge and the definitive refusal for the 1996 budget; the motion of censure tabled in this House a year ago for differing reasons; and the first report of the Committee of Independent Experts on the reform of the Commission which led to the mass resignation of the Commission itself, are now part of European folklore.
But if the Commissioner wishes to offer doctrine or good intentions ...
Amendment No 11 replaces 'government or municipal officials' with 'government officials' .
I am also anxious to hear the views of Parliament in this regard.
They accept the professional confidentiality of business and banks, even though this same confidentiality serves to conceal what are essentially criminal actions.
An integrated development policy for all rural areas in the European Union is therefore needed, consisting of the following elements: an integrated, multi-sectoral approach, simplification of administrative procedures, improvement of the partnership between European institutions and national and local actors and protection of the environment.
Mr President, year after year we learn, mainly from the European Court of Auditors' test reports, that money is lost to the budget of the European Union on account of misdemeanours ranging from wastage, mismanagement, and irregularities to suspected blatant fraud.
In fact, shortly after the Maastricht Treaty was ratified, you spoke in favour of strengthening European values, creating a European ethical dimension and opening the Union to the countries of central and eastern Europe.
Madam President, I rise under Rule 9 of the Rules of Procedure of this House and allude to the same point raised by Mr Davies about the very serious allegations made on BBC radio this morning.
This is having unfortunate and obvious effects on the scope for controlling inter-ethnic coordination, and we are all conscious that, if measures are not taken in the short term, we may end up with situations involving the kind of tensions that we witnessed just a few hours ago, and that these tensions may be mirrored in other areas of Kosovo.
In this connection, I would ask Parliament to support Amendment No 108, in which the words "water pollution caused by individual pollutants" are replaced by "prevention of water pollution through the continuous reduction in discharges" .
I think she was reflecting the views of many non-governmental organisations, many people who admire Chinese civilisation but are concerned about what is happening in China today.
I do, however, think it appropriate to say that, at the forthcoming negotiations and with the conclusion of the association agreement, the European side must point out to the Skopje government the need for it to show appropriate constructive political will, so that it may contribute positively to a successful outcome of the talks in New York.
Let me cite the example of the initiative of the French postal service, which decided, for instance, to make interpreters and writers available to the public in post offices in problem urban areas.
At the moment, Europe does not have a foreign policy to speak of.
Lastly, I would like to state once again that the Commission intends to be in the pole position in presenting proposals for implementing the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds believes that as many as 400,000 birds, perhaps mainly guillemots, may have died.
The "physico-chemical and ecological quality of water" was highlighted during the debate and in the proposals, and the adverse effects of other aspects was, at best, touched upon marginally.
But at the same time, one can clearly see that the upheaval caused by enlargement may lead to Community competences being limited and subsidiarity being extended.
It is essential for us to send the Commission a message of confidence about its role in this area.
The battle for a workable compromise lasted almost two years, and now, at long last, the European Parliament can give the go-ahead.
I am anxious to know how effective the EU' s policy planning and early warning unit has been.
Mr President, first of all, I have only positive comments to make on Mrs Van der Laan' s very expert work on this report.
The European Public Prosecutor' s Office is nothing to be afraid of.
The European market is still fragmented and such structures would doubtless cause problems.
Big expectations are built up for these reforms both within the Commission and outside.
Should we complain about this delay?
I think it was an excellent example the Commissioner gave when she said that no one would have dreamed of having a situation in which the fifteen countries of the European Union were not equally represented but that it was a different matter when it came to equal representation for women.
We have all spoken favourably of this programme' s confirmation and of the extension of the sectors it covers to include the field of transnational and interregional cooperation, in addition to cross-border cooperation.
And any remaining skeletons, I intend to leave them in the cupboard.
This global restructuring plan could lead to the loss of up to 12 000 jobs.
Are there any comments?
There are now 28 channels here in this Parliament, including two Greek, one Portuguese, one Finnish and one Belgian, but still no Dutch, and as many as seven English, six German and six French.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank Mr Amado and Mr Nielson.
Faced with this neoliberal globalisation dominated by the financial markets, demand, as our motion recognises, is developing from a different idea of the world in which common law stipulates a duty of solidarity in an increasingly interdependent world.
The new service will report to me and it will be accompanied by an Audit Progress Board chaired by my colleague, Mrs Schreyer, who I am delighted to see in the Chamber this evening.
Mr Solana can play an important role in this.
The fact is there are too few women involved in research work in the European Union.
However, apart from these principles, there is the consideration that water, as a common resource, cannot be subjected to the rules of the market.
I hope we can have further debates like this.
Mr Berend, you expressed a wish that zoning should be implemented quickly.
Both proposals have already been accepted by the Council and it is thus a matter of endorsing this approach in order to be able to make an assessment in time, with knowledge of all facts and/or in order to establish to what extent and in what way social protection should be reorganised in the European Union.
That the markets for production factors, including the labour market, operate flexibly?
As you know, there are 22 guidelines on which each country is evaluated.
We were able, at the Istanbul Summit a couple of weeks ago, to meet and have discussions with some of the Central Asian republics.
The lessons of this latest oil slick must be learnt in full, and decisions must be taken speedily at Community level to prevent coffin ships sailing off our shores or berthing in our ports, to make double hulls mandatory for the transportation of pollutants, and to strengthen standards for safety and inspection.
And such a network could take the form of improved coordination between national public prosecution authorities, for example, and the creation, if necessary, of national teams specialising in offences involving Community finances.
The West fought for human rights in Kosovo and what is happening there today?
The Commission will continue to raise issues regarding the rule of law, democratic principles and human rights with Cambodian authorities through the EC-Cambodia Cooperation Agreement which entered into force on 1 November last year.
Apart from this, Mr Ortuondo Larrea, the Court is of the opinion that the transfer effected between Portugal and France does not violate the principle of exploiting living sea and freshwater resources in a rational and responsible way, on the grounds that the fishing pressure in zones VIII and IX neither increases nor adversely affects the overall quota of these resources allocated to Spain.
I should like to say that those who run down this policy in their own States bear the responsibility for obstructing European nature conservation policies.
We must recognise a sector that is predominantly engaged in cross-border activity and therefore deserves a European policy with a stimulating, innovative and proactive approach to sustainable business development.
I propose, therefore, that we should keep the arrangements as per the agenda, with the debate on Friday and the vote at a later date.
Finally, a word on INTERREG.
It ought not, therefore, to be immediately interpreted as a ban.
This is the objective, in respect of which he called upon the European Parliament: give hope to the people of Europe.
Genuine structural reforms and a competition-friendly taxation policy are the cornerstones of a successful economic base.
However, there is still no Community legislation in the areas of patent law and protection of designs, and there needs to be.
It is important to adjust the procedure for two reasons.
It does not matter whether you come from Galicia, it does not matter whether you are from Northern Ireland or whether you are from Scotland.
The Council has become prematurely involved without waiting for the results of the coalition negotiations or a programme of government.
Fortunately, the Italian Government and the President of the Republic intervened, and today the Italian Ambassador to Germany will also speak on the subject, to call on the German Chancellor not to interfere in Italian internal affairs, in so far as there are no neo-fascist candidates for government office.
In my view, that is the most important issue this Intergovernmental Conference has to concentrate its energies on.
In our view, this would bring with it a complex legislative burden, and it would be preferable to have a political and declaratory charter which explains to citizens what their existing rights are.
Firstly, I would like to make it very clear that the Union is the main contributor to aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo.
The various references made to regional cooperation with the neighbouring countries in fact become politically relevant in this context.
With all due respect to a Commissioner as effective as Mr Fischler, and given that we have heard contradictory comments, depending on the translation, with regard to a possible request by President Prodi for the resignation of Mr Fischler, I would be very grateful if this point could be clarified in this House.
We all agree on this.
I hope that Parliament's participation in the Geneva session turns out to be more than just a token presence and that its representatives do more than just listen to and give evidence. First and foremost they should use the occasion to affirm that we regard the aspects I have just mentioned as central to the identity of the European Union and of the European nation, and that we also uphold the principle of the universality of human rights that transcends time and place.
It is doing a number of things that are right, as Mrs Cederschiöld has described; but, in the context of these things she described, Parliament must look not so much at the content of the framework decision, not so much at the report drawn up by Mrs Cederschiöld, but more at the procedures that are being applied.
The main problem is a financial one, namely who bears the cost?
This is a good approach and that is why we have also supported it.
The credibility of the industrialised north is at stake.
First of all, regarding the observations made by Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, I wish to assure him that we will change the procedure for authorisation of GMO additives in the Additives Directive 70/524, and not in the Novel Feed Directive.
We must be aware of the aftermath of the floods.
Of course progress has been made in recent years but we still have to work together towards a climate of tolerance in which racism and xenophobia are regarded as completely beyond the pale, completely unacceptable, while at the same time we deal very robustly with incidents such as the ones we are discussing this afternoon.
The various political groups generally agree on the easily verifiable observation that women are under-represented in the decision-making process, in both the political and the economic and social spheres.
However, the Swedish Christian Democrats would oppose any such development as we believe that tourism is a matter with which the European Union should only be marginally concerned.
We would both like to thank all those who have worked on the project and all the Commission staff, who took part in the broadest debate ever organised at the Commission.
Today, we run the risk of adding a new institution to the already numerous and varied institutions which exist within each country.
As a matter of urgency, therefore, we must restore, within the framework of a supplementary budget, the budget line which was allocated to us for natural disasters.
With regard to Article 5g of the other proposal for a directive, the so-called Article on Delegation, I think the Commission' s original proposal on rules concerning authorisation was better than the one now approved in the committee, so I would support some of Mrs Villiers' amendments to this point.
Another, at least as important, lesson of our experience, however, is that it is better to prevent a crisis than to have to take emergency action subsequently.
However, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has voted unanimously on some important amendments to the Commission proposal.
It will certainly be necessary to develop an instrument for this in the anticipated legislative procedure that will enable enterprises to enjoy legal certainty and to have recourse to the Commission in this matter.
Its purpose is to preserve a semi-transparent field of action, which during the directive' s first implementation period will allow critical choices to be finalised to the benefit of big business.
This is therefore an aspect to be considered.
I shall not even mention the instances of corruption in the Italian Socialist Party, because it does not do to kick a man when he is down, still less when he is dead and gone.
As you say tons of food, water purification equipment, tents, blankets.
The part of this agreement which blocks negotiations could mean that the Union ends up paying producers to stop producing sherry, port and a whole host of products which are purely and simply copies under international commercial law. Imagine the potential cost of such a precedent.
There is a highly revealing passage on this point in the work programme for the year 2000 attached to the strategic guidelines.
I just have one more request.
I believe that this debate shortly before midnight will also teach a salutary lesson to all those counterfeiters who believe their hour has come, because they think the EU is no longer awake at this late hour!
It is only by complying with the essential agreements established with the programmes following on from the stability pact and by developing a market with less obstacles at all levels that we will reach the levels of competitiveness required by the European Union.
I can assure you that it was not easy to achieve this, last week in the Committee I chair, but we eventually decided to back the Portuguese Presidency and we would like to win this wager.
There should be greater involvement of the private sector which will introduce financial reality as a perspective within the funding equation.
This means that medical aid is still denied to the Albanian Kosovars.
It is for the Member States to undertake criminal measures.
Small and medium-sized businesses, above all, need to take part in the distribution of these funds.
I can speak for my party, which championed Austria' s membership of the European Union in the early days.
There are amendments which propose splitting the costs fifty-fifty between the manufacturer and the buyer of a new car.
Talk of minimum regulations and poverty thresholds is meaningless to the present Member States and unreasonable as far as less wealthy applicant States are concerned.
Just before I say a word about the assistance which has been given by ECHO so far, perhaps I can be allowed to make three rather personal remarks.
So there was not much sympathy for this budget line when it was abolished.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with all these major political challenges, but precisely because of the recovery that is now underway, we are also faced with major opportunities.
As I will say in the debate on the Erika disaster, we do not wait until there is a disaster to deal with the question of safety, but we work on it even when there are no such circumstances, which simply serve to demonstrate the urgency for an effective response to this type of problem.
Our most deprived urban neighbourhoods face a plethora of problems: high unemployment and often very low-paid precarious employment, poverty and social exclusion.
The recent initiative by the Finnish presidency to develop indicators recording and reflecting the representation of women in the decision-making centres is extremely important.
Mr Kinnock will present his proposal next month.
I voted in favour of Mrs Stenzel' s report on the EQUAL initiative as I believe that it is essential to continue the work begun under the previous NOW, HORIZON, YOUTHSTART and INTEGRA strands of the ADAPT and EMPLOYMENT initiatives.
In connection with the Intergovernmental Conference, Mr Barnier said, during his presentation in Parliament, that social policy was not to be subject to majority decision-making but, when I look at page 63, I see that rights of travel and of residence - that is to say, the Residence Directives - ,combating discrimination, the whole of social security and the renewal of Regulation No 1408 and, with a few exceptions, of arrangements in the socio-political sphere are to be subject to qualified majority voting.
There should be no attempt to have one or other organisation, which is just being formed with a view to contributing a new idea and is not yet so well known, pushed a little on to the sidelines, say because of official local or regional policy.
The Erika oil slick and the contamination of the Danube demonstrates the pressing need for European scale intervention to safeguard the environment.
However, the measures that may subsequently be taken must obviously comply with the general principles applicable to risk management and the guidelines for applying the precautionary principle are therefore the key element of the paper.
Of course, the story of the Erika seems comical.
It is simply not possible for a country to have normal economic relations with the EU if it does not recognise democratic principles.
I can only emphasise that these are the really hard nuts that finally need to be cracked.
Some of these issues have been discussed in depth.
There is a question about the legislative base on which we have taken the best advice and I think we are soundly placed on that.
If I can make a literary commendation to the honourable Member, who I recognise is interested in these subjects, I recommend to him a book published just before Christmas written by Isabel Hilton, the distinguished journalist, on the problems of Tibet.
For ten years now, the elected President of that country has been under house arrest.
It is indeed.
The proposed timetable is tight but essential and will require great determination from all of us, including this House.
Are we adopting rules that will allow the police access to our own systems on very, very shoddy grounds?
This permits desirable competition in providing these services under a publicly-supported but fully transparent franchise system.
In view of this situation, renewed interest has been expressed in the proposal by James Tobin, winner of the Nobel Prize for Economics, to create a tax on currency transactions. The rate of this would be very low so that it did not affect trade in goods or investments, but it would act as a light brake on the wheels of speculation, thereby checking the multiplication of short-term transactions.
We also aim to include training in these issues in the basic training that our officials receive in project cycle management.
Mr Haider has actually been in government in the southern province of Carinthia where he has led a racist and xenophobic campaign against the Slovene-speaking minority in that region who are Austrian citizens, where he has attempted to abolish dual language education and where there has been clear discrimination against the Roma and immigrant communities.
It is precisely for this reason that we are in favour of adopting Amendments Nos 78 and 79, which already prefigure a minimum of set rules on interceptions and on video conferences.
On the other hand, the losers will be the remote areas and their inhabitants, and the people that will not benefit from the new services.
Have faith in the successful results which LEADER has had so far.
It is, above all, the manufacturer' s resources we are wasting if we do not get to grips with a car' s life-cycle.
Finally, among the priority parameters to be introduced at European level to enable local involvement, particular attention must be paid to the quality and originality of projects which have already been implemented by LAGs within the LEADER II initiative, but which could not be concluded due to the timetable and weight of the management mechanisms specified.
Such important areas include the Balkans and the Adriatic region, but, in my opinion, we should not ignore cooperation with Russia either.
And you very opportunely highlighted the role of the civil society, the importance of the civil society, not just in the candidate countries, but in all the countries in the European Union, in restoring our citizens' confidence, in restoring confidence in the social solidarity which we need.
Unless this CAP is overthrown, no programme can ensure the survival of small and medium-scale farmers and the social and economic regeneration of the countryside.
It is not true to say that, when a government forms an alliance with neo-Fascists somewhere in Europe, this is merely a question of national sovereignty.
Would it be appropriate for you, Madam President, to write a letter to the Sri Lankan President expressing Parliament's regret at his and the other violent deaths in Sri Lanka and urging her to do everything she possibly can to seek a peaceful reconciliation to a very difficult situation?
The European Union is in the process of finding its soul and getting some steel in its spine.
However, we are in Europe experiencing droughts and desertification in certain regions and also floods, which the directive underlines.
Mr Commissioner, the problem is that when Mr Aznar comes to the European Union to receive money for all the people of Andalusia, he counts all of them, but when he goes to the Andalusia Council to pay for services, he fails to notice 400 000 Andalusians, and this is very serious, because 400 000 children are the equivalent to the whole of Strasbourg or a city larger than Granada, full of children.
This has undeniable repercussions on social protection which is tied in with labour to a large extent.
I would like to ask both gentlemen how they view the long-term future.
A slim right-wing majority succeeded in removing any reference to market failures.
However, as Parliament, we wish to propose - as others have said and as the resolution states - the creation of an inter-service working group consisting of the people responsible for all the policies mentioned and the establishment of a monitoring centre for the coherence of the different Community policies, which is capable of anticipating the effects of each policy on the developing countries and amongst themselves.
I shall look into this matter with the College of Quaestors.
I have spoken about the Special European Council and about Portugal' s initiative in convening it, and I have spoken about the future, because there are two complementary ways of seeing the issue of social exclusion.
The financial resources of the United Nations are spread very thinly and because of this many crucial programmes are dependent on voluntary contributions to keep them afloat.
This principle means that the Commission must act within the limits laid down by the Treaties and it is in this context that the statement of 1 February was made.
It is not the Portuguese Presidency' s job to hand out the presents that everyone wants, especially those that the European Parliament is asking for.
At this stage, I would simply like to say that I would like to see it integrated into the programming for Objective 2 rural areas, in the way that the EAGGF Guidance Section is for Objective 1 regions.
I think that this is to be welcomed, but this appeal does not really distinguish very clearly between Petersberg tasks and wider, collective defence tasks.
Nowadays, it is becoming more commonplace, as well as efficient, to operate complementary and integrated protection schemes.
Now that financing is readily available across national boundaries without any difficulty the same approach will obviously be strictly necessary, all the more so as we consider that an enormous amount every single day is employed in speculative transactions.
But we should not create the impression that vast amounts of European resources are being put at risk by carelessness in the European Commission.
Opinion of an MEP from the north of Europe: "This Directive would be unfair since, for example, the cost for an inhabitant of Stockholm would be two hundred times greater than the cost for an inhabitant of Naples ".
The next item is the report (A5-0041/2000) by Mr Katiforis, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission document 'The EU Economy 1999 Review' [C5-0081/2000 - 2000/2046(COS)].
What we need, then, are basic administrative regulations for the EU, for its institutions and for the EU in its relations with the Member States.
Mr Crowley, with regard to the presidency' s scope for supporting actions by non-governmental organisations, particularly those which attempt to resolve the problems faced by the homeless, I would like to say that such initiatives are welcome, and we are very much open to the possibility of supporting them.
We wish to assure these Moroccan workers that they have our full support - as if being exploited by unscrupulous employers were not enough, they have to suffer this type of aggression.
I am anxious about the new stipulations in the partnership agreement with the ACP countries, which might make it easier to expel immigrants, asylum seekers and refugees on flimsier grounds.
What I mean to say is that a few small steps have already been made along the path to normality, and it would be nice if they could at least be listed in the course of such a debate.
Already weak economies are being further weakened in Africa by the AIDS virus.
I would ask you to bring this specific case, which has to do with the ventilators on a particular floor, to the attention of the Quaestors, who are, in fact, responsible for the matter.
These amendments would also make the objectives awkward to deal with and difficult to supervise.
The majority within my group is of the opinion that something like this needs to happen.
We should not be too masochistic.
These and other specific measures included in my report can, in my view, lend added value to the actions that the competent national and regional authorities should foster, in order to promote tourism and create new jobs, starting with the adoption of positive fiscal measures to assist small and medium-sized firms, particularly by reducing the burden of charges on labour.
A Europe that faces an impending pensions time bomb must take every step to encourage saving and maximise the return that the people of Europe can obtain on their savings.
I am counting on the Commission, and specifically on you, Commissioner, to allocate adequate resources for effective action.
Rather than go back over the areas that have already been covered I would like to deal with one specific topic: the question of drugs and how we tackle the pervasiveness of the drug culture in our societies.
But we have now arrived at a point where we need to develop competition policy further.
The hurricane of the same name swept across Europe claiming numerous victims, mainly in France and Germany, but also in Switzerland, leaving a trail of destruction in its wake.
The problem is that in this case Father Christmas has to follow orders and therefore he can only give presents when he is authorised by others to do so.
We are therefore taking advantage of this political will in an attempt to define the outlines of a compromise, and we have already begun work on this matter.
We have extensive services, too. We have problems stemming from the lack of confidence in politicians and, not least, in European politicians here in Parliament.
As far as the Treaty is concerned, the intergovernmental conference started this week so we do not know the results yet.
Madam President, on a point of order.
We are concentrating on core tasks and we are concentrating on priorities, not in order to evade any obligations but to absolutely guarantee that we can totally fulfil the central obligations that we have.
The following amendments cannot be approved: 1, 4, 9, 11, 13, 15, 19, 23, 39, 40, 51, 59, 61, 64, 66, 70, 71, 71, 72, 74, 77, 79, 81, 83, 87, 89, 90, 91, 95, 97, 98, 100, 101, 103, 106 and 107.
Mr Wurtz should perhaps remember that not so long ago other members of his party, the French Communist mayors, were sending bulldozers against immigrant hostels in France.
In an article entitled "If women ruled the world" , he maintains that if women were more involved in politics, the world would certainly not be so wedded to violence.
(FR) The proposed action and programme presented by Mr Prodi are vague in the extreme and the social question is missing yet again.
The documents will in the main be open working documents.
We must establish priorities and make sure there is value for money in each of these programmes.
So a great deal has to be done in this area.
Something must be done so that unemployment does not turn the so-called European model into a parody.
When INTERREG is implemented, it will need to be coordinated and synchronised with the other financial instruments concerned.
Thanks to these procedures and other measures we can prove that we are taking the criteria and ourselves seriously.
As a follow-up to the Tampere and Helsinki conclusions, the Commission will be presenting its contribution to the preparation of a European Union strategy to combat organised crime.
However, I fear that a purely emotional reaction by Europe to the events in Austria will only multiply Haider's adherents.
What is happening in France, Mr President, appears prima facie to be a case of discrimination against other EU nationals on grounds of nationality and as such to be in breach of the Treaties.
From the point of view of the Macedonian majority, the Albanian minority behaved loyally towards the common state during the international explosion of the Kosovo conflict.
What can be done to alleviate the damage done to fishing communities?
Mrs Pack did that in her remarks and anywhere that she is prepared to blaze a trail I think the rest of us should be courageous enough to follow.
I share the wide-spread concern that we should treat each country on its merits and not shackle everyone to the pace of the slowest in the development of relations with the Union.
It is responsible for reconstruction down there and for the Fourth Pillar, but it cannot constantly be called upon to pay Mr Kouchner' s outstanding bills.
Full employment is the best way to generate social justice for our citizens.
We welcome the intention of the Commission to integrate environmental protection into other policies of the EU including the common fisheries policy.
The second principle in the Council' s common position is the retroactive element in the draft directive.
They may, therefore, continue to enforce their own standards regarding certain types of pressure vessel used for transportation, where there are no applicable European standards.
We will launch this dialogue on 8 March in Brussels in the presence of 700 young Commission stagiaires.
And, when we recall that, like many others on all sides of this House, my and my colleagues' instincts are naturally aroused.
The Commission will have to provide specific answers to these questions.
Thank you, Commissioner.
The United States administration, the coal industry and all of us need to acquit ourselves of our responsibility and provide a sound alternative: either the soil is cleaned or the Dineh Indians are allocated a proper place where provision is made for all kinds of support, be it in the psychological, social, cultural or budgetary field.
Let us all go back to our respective nations and shout from the rooftops that our belief in democracy and our indignation are not just words, but a demonstration of our actual political commitment.
Yet I have my doubts about the only proposal currently on the table to improve this process which would involve doing away with the Council and Parliament procedure.
In this way, Member States would make themselves very vulnerable and it is doubtful as to whether there are sufficient guarantees to protect the State where interception occurs and the citizens within that State.
So let us vote for these amendments in order to preserve these gems of the automobile industry.
Parliament and the Council are also called upon to take up all the challenges presented by these reforms.
He has delivered excellent work under pressure both from his colleagues and from the car industry.
My next question, Mrs Wallström, is when will you begin to apply this principle to legislation; to legislation pertaining to chemicals or other sectors, for example?
Mr President, the truth is that the news of the indefinite suspension or delay of the talks between Syria and Israel is not good news, but nor is it good news that the day before yesterday there was another bomb attack which injured 16 people.
Consequently, the Commission decided to prepare a proposal on the subject and, since 1997, has been involved in discussions with the parties concerned.
The largest volume transferred in one year has been 453 and the average volume over twenty years has been over 200.
In short, this is the only way they can emerge from humiliating and childlike dependence on aid and take responsibility for themselves, the proof of success.
We are therefore all to blame.
Numerous questions are still outstanding.
Negotiations with six central European countries are starting today, bringing the European family a step closer together.
I welcome any questions, suggestions or proposals from the Members present.
.
If you are, when exactly are you going to do it?
Let us, in particular, focus attention on the re-admission clauses, which present a threat to the Geneva Convention and which should be blocked.
Decisions on asylum should take months - not years.
In the present situation, the national defence can only supply approximately 1 500 men, due to reduced defence spending.
We must not, with this in mind, pursue a strategy of separating the objective of preventing a deterioration in the state of surface water and groundwater from the objectives of protecting, improving and restoring their quality, as this would create a superfluous hierarchy of priorities detrimental to the overall functioning of interventions and specific measures that target a combined approach and the use of the best available techniques.
Question No 37 by (H-0791/99):
We certainly do not want market organisation for forests, but maybe we should set up a system, perhaps in conjunction with the private insurance sector, which will make it possible to mitigate the implications for the victims in some way.
We could, in no way, agree with his view that it would be demeaning for Parliament to set out detailed instructions as to what we wanted the Commission to take up in its reform package.
Thank you, Commissioner.
It sets out achievable standards based on subsidiarity principles and the water basin management.
For me, equality certainly does not mean that both parties to a marriage work the whole time and hand the children over to a nanny, alias an immigrant who has not had the opportunity to obtain another job.
Instead it aims at building on tried and tested mechanisms that have been in place for a very long time, such as the ones foreseen by the Council of Europe Convention on mutual assistance of 1959 and the Benelux Treaty.
However, we should look a little more closely at some points.
It seems unusual that we failed to grasp that opportunity.
In your work programme for 2000 you state something quite clever.
Lastly, but maybe most importantly, we are encouraging closer regional cooperation in a number of areas, bringing all the countries concerned together in a joint endeavour to address their common problems.
This House has already indicated its opposition to driftnets and yet it is evident that certain countries are not only not respecting the undertaking to eliminate these nets but are increasing the number of vessels using these or simply not providing data given the passiveness of the national and Community authorities.
This is part of risk management.
But, unfortunately, we are aware since Seattle that the Commission has no need of a proper assessment of the previous stage before proposing that we go rapidly on to the next stage.
Financial control will be absolutely secured, both because of the way in which we will introduce the changes, and because we will introduce a completely professional, independent internal audit service.
I hope the House will understand that.
To respect my speaking time, I will confine myself to referring only to the broad outlines of my programme: a programme for the dawning of a new legislature and a new century, when it is right and proper to see Europe in a broader perspective, a Europe which is currently in a paradoxical situation.
I would simply like to say that the Portuguese Presidency has, in these two short months, organised the first Development Council, admittedly an informal one, whose agenda was rightly dominated by EU-Africa relations. Indeed it was this subject which led the development ministers of the fifteen Member States to meet in Lisbon for discussions specifically on the new era these relations have entered.

The challenge of a common foreign security and defence policy is very political.
All the experts can provide information and news, formulate opinions and give advice, but, they have no political or elective responsibility, and rightly so.
And, for want of appropriations, we lose this legitimacy and allow the idea that these European directives of ours are not reasonable and are not applicable to develop.
Mr President, early last year, the 1997 discharge was postponed because this Parliament could not possibly grant discharge to a resigning Commission which could not enter into any commitments for the future.
My reply would be: a new start, a clear agenda for reform which confirms that the Union in the 2000s will not stop at being an economic community but will become a community that can be trusted and that we take seriously.
Provide the Commission with the necessary resources and recognition essential for it to carry out its work and for it to verify the real progress made at Community level and at the level of the Member States, and we will be - and the Council will be - able to deal with the decisions made at Tampere and move towards a Union which is freer, more just and more secure.
The regulations must therefore be reviewed, and I thank you, Commissioner, for highlighting the inadequate features of current European regulations.
) Mr President, I believe we totally agree with Mrs Attwooll' s statement at the beginning of her excellent report that these two Commission proposals, intended to shed more light on the scientific and socio-economic situation of the fisheries sector, come at a critical time.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I should like to focus on two points which are not mentioned in your programme.
We take the view that this should form part of this approximation at this time, but the Commission will not adopt this.
In the operation of the temporary institutions, whose establishment has just been decided, can you tell us, Mr Solana, what status you intend to confer on the members of the Alliance and on the associate States of the WEU which, I repeat, are not yet members of the European Union?
Our additions therefore call for the provision of practical enforceable exit strategies so that not only can we have the requisite insurance against ongoing costs which are often loaded onto the taxpayer, but we also avoid the well-rehearsed syndrome of throwing good money after bad.
The result is 30% growth, so we are not completely dissatisfied with the result.
We committed more than EUR 20 million for such projects last year.
The EU must not take on a masculine persona.
75%-80% of this is to come from private sources, and this will be supplemented by public funds from the Member States and from the regions.
This is the citizen of a state' s prerogative, for it is the founding principle of a democracy.
I do not know if you are aware, representatives of the Council of Ministers, of your responsibility over these last few years, and in 2000 as well, for the plight of the families who live on anchovy fishing in the north of the Iberian Peninsular.
Madam President, let us indeed tax money speculation: it does not produce anything new.
Sixthly and finally, we reaffirm that ETA' s terrorism and violence must end. ETA must stop hijacking the will of the Basque people who must be allowed to decide on their future freely and without violent coercion.
If we succeed in this then perhaps we will be better off in a few years' time!
I come from a rural area.
As we were able to ascertain during our missions to Skopje, there has been considerable progress in the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, as regards the economy, movement towards democracy and - an area which is difficult and contentious enough in the Balkans - multi-ethnic coexistence.
But as you will also be aware, we are waiting for a Commission communication on coherence, together with the communication on development policy.
If we believe in the principle of equal representation of women and men in decision making we need to commit ourselves to the actions that are necessary to make it happen.
However, a great deal of attention must be paid to its viability.
Commissioner, would you like to speak now or a little later?
The topic touches the very core of the European Union.
I refer to the Rome Conference and the fact that 14 of the 15 Member States of the Union have still not ratified the treaty establishing an International Criminal Court.
As indicated by the rapporteur, we are discussing probably one of the most important issues that we will ever have to discuss in this Parliament.
We are concerned here with the harmonisation of examination requirements but also, in fact, with minimum requirements.

After each incident of improper use of this money, and certainly after fraud, the call for stricter control is more pronounced.
I urge the Chinese again to do so.
If, however, we would like to give European citizens a greater sense of security, we need to step up our efforts in the field of judicial cooperation.
So far there have been no infringements of the law.
As the Commissioner knows, farming alone will not be sufficient to ensure the sustainability of rural communities.
Response to Second Report of Committee of Independent Experts
This has been the major victim in recent years and any improvements in public finances must lead to improvements in public investment. However, this must be carried out with respect for our tax consolidation commitments.
Let me relate my answer specifically to the question of Turkish accession to the European Union.
So we do not see eye to eye on how we view certain targets.
They want to see results.
Community policy in the field of water (continuation)
If you want to combat xenophobia and racism, and I believe that we should, we need to look at the root causes.
Domestic and foreign investment will grow and more know-how and technology will be transferred, all of which will boost the ACP countries' competitiveness and ease their gradual integration into the world economy.
This would then give us, for Wednesday' s sitting, the two Council statements on the coherence of Union policies with development policy and on the UN 'Human Rights' sitting, followed by the joint debate on Cyprus and then the reports by Mr Swoboda, Mr Corrie, Mrs Frassoni and Mr Knörr Borràs.
I can hardly believe that we will ever achieve this at intergovernmental level.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, I should like to start with a quote: "The Commission will continue to work towards establishing a European Charter of Fundamental Rights and draw up proposals to bring about an ambitious programme.
As there is no vaccination, farmers can only protect themselves by not buying animals from countries in which there are cases of scrapie.
But the problem is that there is no legal basis for this, and with good reason, because the regulation of criminal law belongs to the sphere of national jurisdiction.
Just a few main points.
Furthermore, Amendment No 43 does not fall within the directive' s area of applicability.
A further step towards transparency and the involvement of the European Parliament came with what is known as the modus vivendi of 20 September 1994, which granted Parliament the right not only to be informed but also to intervene in certain cases.
Unfortunately, the new guidelines seem to be heading in the same direction and there are no signs that things will change once they have been implemented.
Instead of allowing post office outlets to be undermined by liberalisation or by the modernisation of systems, governments, and the Commission too, should be encouraging and supporting the extensive network of post office outlets and viewing these as an asset which can be built upon, providing public information and services from a location which is convenient for residents.
We need to be able to go back with a proper answer.
The discrepancies between the different regions can often be traced back to cultural or historical factors.
The Corrie report missed this chance and we must, regrettably, punish it for losing so much.
Mr Marset Campos, you will be aware, first of all, of how difficult it is to select targets during a military operation, particularly an air-based one, and you will also be aware that there is a category of targets that, whilst they are not military targets as such, are infrastructure targets selected with a view to hindering the smooth running of the military machine.
The report put forward today re-establishes its place in the political sphere.
We value our public service, our universal postal service, because we know, and here too we are acting as representatives of the citizens, that the citizens value this service and the Commission undertook, during Mr Bolkestein' s hearing, to maintain this universal service throughout the European Union.
I should like you, Madam President, to express to the Council our wish that they be present at such votes in future.
By setting out in some detail how the Commission applies, and intends to apply, the precautionary principle, we hope to be able to clarify the situation at Community level and to contribute to the ongoing debate at European and international level.
We have worked hard in recent months and weeks and will continue to do so for the rest of this year during the Portuguese presidency, which is clearly carrying out excellent work, and during the French presidency which will undoubtedly continue working with the same speed and skill as it has demonstrated on other occasions.
If we do reduce it, we remove from manufacturers the incentive to design and produce cars which give rise to less waste.
I am wondering, therefore, if you are preparing such a ban and if it would not fit in very well with your approach to the precautionary principle itself to come up with such an initiative.
In any event, we ask the Commission to lay its cards on the table and put forward its proposals, having examined the ultimate foreseeable development of the matter from every aspect and for all the Member States.
That is why again, in my report, I have asked that action under the URBAN Programme should not merely provide a single solution to a single problem: these areas do not have single, "mono" problems.
I am not asking for details or specific points, but I believe that a mention was required.
Therefore, particularly out of respect for you, I must say that I do not approve of this type of behaviour and in fact totally reject this.
All of this is in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity and is therefore to be greatly welcomed.
You have made an explicit reference to the CAP for the coming years, but you have not done so for the CFP, with regard to the double adaptation of the internal market which is necessary to prevent exceptions - as has already been said - and in a global context, in the context of globalisation.
In my belief it is incorrect to use such a crude tool as a common European charge for this issue.
So the legal framework, Mr President, is already in place.
I very much welcome the Commission's support for that bizonal, bicommunal, federal Cyprus for which the UN has campaigned for so long and which both the Greek Cypriot side and the Turkish Cypriot side should be working hard to bring about.
This is an historic agreement because the EU is the contracting party. This is the case, in spite of the fact that it is not the EU, but only the Member States, which belong to the organisation.
It is that a currency that does not even exist yet, that is not in circulation, but exists only as bank deposit money, can nevertheless be counterfeited already. Yet because that currency is not yet in circulation as such, counterfeiting euros does not at present constitute a criminal offence.
Mr President, what will it take to make the debate on human rights something other than what it is today: an ideological instrument which helps to enslave peoples rather than free individuals?
This will either be the century of waste management or it will not.
I do not wish to dwell on this subject on behalf of the Council presidency, because my government intervened at the request of, and in conjunction with, fourteen Member States and not in its presidency capacity.
Therefore, we support the establishment of an agricultural and rural development policy which is consistent with the objectives we have set. We want rural areas, at the dawn of the 21st century, to be competitive and multi-functional, both with regard to agriculture and with regard to opening up to the diversity of non-agricultural activities.
Konrad Adenauer once said - and he knew what he was saying - that the surest way to pacify a tiger was to allow it to devour you.
This is a good idea but it must be made to be meaningful and, to do this, the problems linked to animals and those linked to consumer health must be dealt with at the same time.
I would stress that this style of debate is something very new and, in my opinion, it has forced us to radically change our way of thinking as well.
This Parliament' s motion for a resolution has been very attentive to these difficulties, making proposals capable of solving them to the Commission and setting reasonable deadlines for making the necessary changes.
You are going to commission a fact-finding mission.
What is also missing is a paragraph concerning the EU' s shared responsibility for the social and political developments in Europe and Austria which have been among the prior conditions for Mr Haider' s electoral success.
It brings me great joy to witness that the Council now seems to accept this break-through and also wants to bring it to the fore in Lisbon.
The ACP countries are to be urged to allow a whole range of political opinions to come up for discussion.
As you yourself said, Commissioner, these disasters or storms do not always have natural causes, and we think that these are the first signs of climate change.
Tell the truth for once. You could not care less what the people of Europe want.
In order to finance the stability plan for the Balkans, we will have to negotiate a significant revision of Category 4, and you must remember the enormous difficulties we have had in approving the 2000 budget.
Although there is this disagreement, I should stress that all three institutions agree on the content and that every effort is being made to find a common approach to this particularly important and sensitive question which concerns an exceptionally large number of working doctors throughout Europe.
We should no longer be worried that the agenda for the IGC will be restricted.
After the talks which took place the day before yesterday between the Israeli Prime Minister and the Leader of the Palestinian Authority, the Israeli Prime Minister requested a delay of two months as from 13 February, the deadline for the implementation of the framework agreement on the situation in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip.
You see, ladies and gentlemen, we have only just initiated the new programming and we are already considering together the impact of the Union' s enlargement on our structural policy.
Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent explanatory statement.
The polluter pays principle is both necessary and appropriate.
Allow me to say from the outset that the part of the complex report which Mr Böge dealt with - and this form of collaboration between two committees, with one leading committee and the other giving an opinion and vice versa, worked very well and could perhaps be used as a model for the future - is relatively simple.
This adjustment will make it possible to estimate the deficits and debts in the Member States more precisely.
I would like to see those actions extended to cover health and anti-discrimination, as provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty.
The ecologically sustainable transfer of water must not be restricted by Union acts.
And how could you be worthy of this after the mad cow scandal and the resignation of the Santer Commission for corruption?
For this reason, 2000 will no doubt be a year for testing how the EU' s institutions respond to our citizens' demands for guaranteed freedom of movement, with respect for their rights and guarantees of security and stability though appropriate judicial protection.
Rapid alert is there for food but not for feed.
Mr President, this Parliament, which has shown itself to be highly Europeanist so many times, must, on this occasion, show that it can express a majority vote for a political union of Europe which is capable of dealing with market weak spots and failures.
The processing cost can then be incorporated in the price of new cars.
Mr MacCormick, first of all, I would like to answer your comments.
This moderation and thoughtfulness is particularly necessary in the implementation of Article 280(4).
Firstly, with regard to the decision-making bodies, the Political and Security Committee met for the first time this morning, 1 March 2000. This committee was established by the last General Affairs Council.
To conclude, I would just like to say something on the principle of subsidiarity. I believe it to be of vital importance that where Member States allow regions and local authorities to raise taxes, they should continue to be able to do so and not be subject to across- the-board regulation by Europe.
Secondly, if you do recognise this right, then what standards of international law and political morality are you going to base your decisions on?
I also doubt that any of you think that, as things stand, it is not in Milosevic' s interest to pull out all the stops and destabilise Kosovo, as he is doing and as we have seen.
As regards the national and/or local level of employee involvement, the Commission wishes to underline again the need for proper information and consultation of employees' representatives before any redundancies are decided or implemented, as provided for in the collective redundancies directive and in other national provisions.
The Union must help to promote the spirit of enterprise and to generate employment in this way, but without forgetting public investment.
The plant is not yet there.
With regard to the present agreement, both these conditions are fulfilled.
For all these reasons, I think that reforming the Treaties would allow the huge tourist question, which is an important asset for the whole planet, to be properly integrated.
What we are talking about is nothing more and nothing less than the future of Europe, and, in particular, a Europe that the citizens truly regard as being theirs, because they are instrumental in shaping it and because the cares and concerns, the problems and issues they face on a daily basis are also taken seriously by politicians.
It has been pointed out that this framework decision is in fact a decision in the area of criminal law.
I shall convey your wish that the rapporteurs should be quickly appointed for the files you mentioned to my colleagues in the Bureau and to the appropriate committees.
This would be a marvellous exercise in supervision!
According to this article, state aid is irreconcilable with the common market, in principle. Exemptions are only permitted in precisely defined cases.
In the first reading debate it was only the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee which asked this question and it was only myself as the draftsman of the opinion of that committee who posed that question in Parliament. That is quite simply: Who pays?
I willingly accept your invitation. If I have understood you correctly, you want me, when I come to Yorkshire, to talk not only about the reform of the European institutions but also the Structural Funds.
Looking at some of the press reports of last Friday, I believe that the Commission and its President exercised commendable self-restraint in the way they commented publicly.
If you ratify ...
I was in sympathy with the EDD Group amendment, talking about rejecting the interference of the EU in the formation of governments of Members States but I had to abstain because it just followed on the condemnation of xenophobia, racism, etc. and I felt that it might be misinterpreted.
It is also true that we note certain deficiencies which have come to light in the report.
Finally, in discussing the question of the future application of tests, we should of course bear in mind that we have still not reached the point where tests are generally applicable.
However, we should not condemn Mr Haider for ambition.
On 26 October 1999 the European Commission adopted a proposal to ensure that a legal basis is given to the budget line informing the public about the CAP.
We have just recently had a case of using the precautionary principle when it came to ban phthalates in soft PVC toys; and of course, we apply it in several different environmental areas.
Women have different individual needs and interests.
Naturally you will be perfectly free to ask him questions in the speeches you make following this statement, just as Mr Prodi will be perfectly free to answer you.
During debates in committee, we have also pointed out the difficulties involved in coordinating INTERREG with other annual or biannual financial instruments, such as MEDA, TACIS or PHARE.
We do not know what is happening.
We know that the European Union has its own dynamics, which stem above all from the Treaty of Amsterdam, which has reinforced its political dimension. This inevitably has important consequences for the proposal for coherence in policies relating to development.
These proposals must be seen as part of our mission to have the highest food safety standards in the world, boost consumer confidence and increase markets for farmers and producers in the Union.
And this is the direction in which we expect the Danish and the other nine governments to move.
The obligation to develop and consolidate a strategy for integration derives from this notion, with the aim of keeping the management of water resources at the heart of the sustainable economic production model in the light of current conditions.
In that context, I want to ask the following question of the Commission' s and the Council' s representatives: is the legal basis which has been invoked adequate?
What has happened over the past 200 years is that the time it takes for a letter to go from Munich to Brussels has increased fivefold.
The economic and social damage, which we have spoken about today, in terms of the loss of jobs and fishing and tourist resources, is so great that they fully justify decisive and thorough action on the part of the Community institutions.
I cannot start anything while there is no regulation in place, because I lack the legal basis for doing so.
Thank you very much Commissioner Patten.
I believe that we need legally binding requirements stating that the financial costs of water services are to be covered by each economic sector.
We therefore need to take consistent account of six or seven points in the coming debate on the TSE proposal, and that of course includes scrapie.
There is no need to paint too much of an idealistic picture.
I welcome the movement towards the recognition of judicial systems in the various countries and the cooperation on crime.
Against this background of extremely high expectations, I do not think that I am exaggerating if I say that this first step, namely the stability and association agreement with Macedonia, is vitally important.
I wish to thank everyone in this Parliament who worked to achieve this successful outcome to the conciliation process.
Dovetailing the activities under the Community initiative with the European employment initiatives is an essential requirement and a crucial prerequisite for attaining the objectives of the EQUAL programme.
It is a fact that the road has been a long one, mainly because of the legal problem that arose in connection with the extent to which the Community could be considered to have absolute competence in matters of intellectual property.
TOPICAL AND URGENT DEBATE
Urban policy has always been at the forefront of EU policy.
We share your delight, as long as we do not race ahead so quickly that transatlantic cooperation is impaired.
I now turn to the amendments to be tabled before Parliament tomorrow concerning the principle of the recovery of cost of water usage.
Madam President, despite the fundamental democratic principle of the respect for human rights and the freedom and sovereignty of peoples, which opposes fascism, nazism or communism, both new and old, and despite all the previous speakers talking about the sovereignty of the Austrian people, we are today witnessing this sovereignty being denied by Parliament.
Question No 45 by (H-0041/00):
Surprisingly, I imagine with the best of intentions, this ecological objective has become an instrument of commercial war by making consumers, and especially the agricultural sector, responsible for the price of installations and the procedures for ensuring water quality.
On this latter point we are reflecting on whether it might be useful to adopt a framework regulation which makes common provision on leading issues like pay, conditions, staff representation rights and so on, but enables the different institutions to operate implementing rules on other matters.
We have had in the recent past different experiences and approaches on how to deal with large-scale operations of corporate restructuring, often affecting the lives of large numbers of European people.
Unfortunately, it was then changed, and changed for the worse, which turned it into a document which in fact, proposes something that we cannot accept.
In point 14, Parliament calls on the Commission to submit an evaluation report on LEADER II immediately.
The European Union unequivocally considers that although it is a very valuable instrument for exchanging views and for taking note of the overall position of the other party, the dialogue should also yield concrete results on the ground, and when this does not happen it may be necessary to present a resolution to the Human Rights Commission, potentially whilst the dialogue is continuing.
So how far have we come?
There is no justification in our society for terrorist acts such as the one which took the lives of Fernando Buesa and Jorge Díez, particularly when the former was a freely elected representative of the Basque people.
The next item is the Commission communication - The dialogue on Europe - institutional reform: the issues at stake.
The property right that has been created in such a system is the right to fish - not the fish themselves.
This means that we move away from shredding.
Mr President, Mr Monti, the reform of competition rules calls for a commitment by the European Union, not only in the light and as a consequence of changes which have taken place through the years, but also with a forward-looking view to the Union' s enlargement.
I thank the Commissioner and support him very much in his European protection force.
We are aware that some of them are already undergoing processes of democratic stabilisation, that others still need to affirm the democratic authority of their governments, and that equilibrium in others depends on the military presence in the zone, but they are all countries which now know that, once they have overcome their difficulties, a bridge is available to provide an effective link with the European Union.
It is quite clear that when businesses can more easily have access to their own capital-based finances their financial structure will be more firmly based, and, thus, opportunities for growth and investment will also improve.
Under the banner of "progress towards transparency" , a range of documents is being locked away from the general public.
Can I invite Mr Elles not to put the cart before the horse.
All the international community has to do is implement Resolutions 332, 248, 245 and 194.
But what about Kosovo in the year 2000?
Spiritual values have been disseminated from Europe throughout the globe.
I must say that Alex Langer's presence here in the European Parliament is sadly missed. His efforts to build peace should serve as an example, to all of us, on how peaceful coexistence can be achieved.
I do not think this is at all fair, either to the workers at the Cisterna plant or to all those Italian and European citizens whose taxes have, albeit indirectly, enabled Goodyear to benefit from the state aids I have just mentioned.
They ask us where their children are, their sons.
Like many other hundreds of volunteers, she had seen the destruction, washed birds and cleaned up after the people responsible who were not to be found on the coast on those evenings and nights when they really should have been required to be there.
Is the Commissioner aware that, of this 263 hm3, we used 25 for irrigation on the left bank of the Levante, 30 for water supplies in the area of the Júcar, 7 for supplies in the southern area of the Júcar and the rest in the Segura, equally divided between supplies and irrigation?
In anticipation of this request being met, I now want to take the opportunity of wishing all socialist women success with the "Women' s World Marches" which are to begin this spring on International Women' s Day.
This was no surprise, since the universal service operators do not always have the systems in place for detailed letter collection.
The new model now being tested by the Commission ought not to lead to a process of nationalisation pure and simple which would undermine the established competition policy.
For this reason, it is essential that the Council' s debates on the future of Europol and Eurojust should be conducted in parallel, so that conclusions can be reached in parallel also.
Of course the dialogue has enabled us to identify and implement EU cooperation programmes in the human rights and legal spheres.
I do think, though, that the LEADER+ programme has not got a penny to spare on additional administrative tasks, which in the normal course of events would have to be carried out by the Commission in any case.
We have taken fifteen years to achieve Economic and Monetary Union.
This is why we are abstaining.
What happened at El Ejido is the result of inadmissible racist and xenophobic practices in Europe today.
In the Union for a Europe of Nations Group our principles are rather different.
Three quarters of those who die are children under five years of age.
Now, I hope that in facing those challenges we will have support which consists of adequate resources as well as spectacular rhetoric.
He said that globalisation is a positive phenomenon, and I share his view.
The regions have not been sufficiently involved in the preparation of the guidelines, although this demand was often made in the debate about the reform of the Structural Funds.
Mr President, tomorrow will see a large majority within the PPE Group vote in favour of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as well as the amended version.
To grasp the importance of tourism for some parts of Europe, it is worth pointing out that in my own country, Greece, a country that attracts tourists, over the past four decades, during which the farming population has clearly aged and the population is over-concentrated in the major urban centres, the only areas which have retained populations of low average age or to which young people have returned are ones where tourism has developed.
What, also, will be the role of the food authorities which you are about to set up?
The European Union intends to permit 5% of alternative fats in chocolate in order to harmonise the internal market.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Community initiative LEADER proved itself to be an effective instrument to initiate innovative developments and pilot projects both within and outside rural areas.
The next item is the communication on food safety and a statement by the Commission.
When it comes to so-called development aid, given that underdevelopment in the majority of these countries is getting worse rather than better, development is clearly not what the aid is for, even when it is not just a disguised export subsidy for European manufacturers.
Thank you very much Mr Kuckelkorn.
We socialists consider that to defend the common fisheries policy is to defend a regulated and controlled fisheries sector.
In future, we would like to see greater ambition applied to the subject of the outermost regions such as, in my country, the islands of the Azores and Madeira.
I do not believe that there has ever been a resolution - and in this Parliament we certainly produce complex resolutions - which has had paragraphs of more than 16 lines without a single full stop.
Secondly, even if the Commission and the Council adopt a different position on this because they see real problems there, we believe that the other donors must also fulfil the obligations they have entered into.
I am seriously concerned that unless the Commission recognises that this is an important aspect of how we will create a cohesive Europe, we will make progress on the economic front, on the employment front and even on the issue of foreign and security policy, but our citizens will still remain fearful because they will fear the unknown and they will fear those they do not understand.
This is why we are offloading all the activities which it is no longer appropriate for us to carry out - another important area of reform - in accordance with a principle of decentralisation and subsidiarity.
The important thing is for money to generate more money.
I know many have already done so, but she has indeed earned our praise for being particularly open and attentive to proposals from all sides, and I think it is this openness which has given her report the quality we see today.
Of course, the Treaty provides us with a barrier when things become intolerable; I was almost going to say 'irreparable' .
The second proposal, on which the report is excellent, does not require any particular comment.
In addition - and this has also been mentioned already, for example by Mr Gasòliba I Böhm, but also by others - there is a need for more supervision.
It would be obscene to wish to settle the fate of hundreds of thousands of postal workers, millions of service users, in a great rush.
You said that in Lisbon you intend to discuss more dynamic and competitive development.
Out of 410 applications in 1999 only 55 projects with a low overall volume of EUR 6.07 million could be considered.
That is what we are lacking, Commissioner: the political will to make a start in tackling speculation.
Mr President, why do women need their rightful share in political decision making?
Today' s problems cannot be solved in five years.
It is precisely this phenomenon of solidarity which lies behind the European social model, which we are all in favour of, and which gave rise to the idea of economic and social cohesion.
I should point out that 70% of funding for the period 2000-2006, i.e. EUR 195 billion, will go to the less-favoured regions of Europe.
The examples are all quoted in a resolution which lies before us.
With regard to INTERREG, we are very happy that there is a reference to the creation of a European monitoring centre concerned with cooperation.
Commissioner Liikanen, we expect an authoritative intervention.
The need for transparency is rightly stressed, not least because greater transparency in the way in which the Commission operates will improve the efficiency and will also demystify what the Commission does.
When speaking of the commitment to full employment, we have to bear in mind that, these days, full employment does not mean what it meant in the era of Beveridge at the end of the Second World War, that is to say, employment for the male head of the household.
Who is going to pay?
How can we - the Commission, Parliament and also the national parliaments of the applicant countries - meet this challenge more effectively, taking into account the ideas and considerations of the applicant countries?
If, despite this, the coalition goes ahead, we would urge the ÖVP party members to ensure that the principles and values which underlie European integration are observed in political programmes, both in word and deed.
I am also convinced that LIFE has great potential.
Of course we also want to extend the European Parliament' s corresponding powers in this area.
We vigorously supported the Troika démarche to Foreign Minister Hor Namhong on 4 February this year.
This will be possible with action on the part of governments, and such decentralisation of higher education will be an unquestionably useful policy in evening out development.
We have no intention of giving Brussels the job of regulating regional planning in the Member States, as suggested in recital of the report.
The means of doing that are set out in the reform strategy and the Commission will present its proposals for a radical recasting of the Financial Regulation in April.
I expect Ta Mok and his main lieutenants to be tried and sentenced by the establishment of a tribunal whose impartiality is guaranteed by the United Nations.
Mr Prodi also announced greater transparency, but his draft regulation signals a clear backward step, and that is not only my assessment, but also that of the European Ombudsman.
The example of Norway demonstrates the effectiveness of this approach.
These are two important questions, and it is good that I should be given the opportunity to clarify them.
The Commission, as I have promised, will complete its proposals on the IGC opinion about the legal system and the Court of Justice within the next few weeks.
My impression of environment-related work, broadly speaking, is that in many instances it is dominated by women.
This special court in Luxembourg is necessary in order to build up broad expertise.
DGs must publish their own annual accounts so as to enable a clear identification of problem areas and set annual targets for reducing fraud and irregularities.
We are therefore going to vote in favour of the demands for reforms which are presented in the resolution, but against the granting of discharge.
I would like to draw people's attention to Amendments Nos 1 and 2 which were agreed by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs but not accepted by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Mr President, Commissioner, we should be pleased that this directive has already reached second reading.
The aim of the new proposals is to maintain the highest level of protection for the benefit of investors, which is an essential precondition for market integration resulting from the launch of the euro.
Specifically, I must stress in this debate the plan for Morocco. This is a country with which the European Union has an effective relationship and common interests and which should take particular priority in mutual cooperation and collaboration.
Secondly, we have to have realistic targets, but targets nevertheless.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is my maiden speech and I am delivering it with a great deal of pleasure and conviction as the topic is human rights.
I would have to ask them what chemicals they are putting into the water supply at the moment and why they are not broadcasting to all the residents in that area exactly what they are doing.
Gordon Brown, MP, meanwhile, has led international efforts to relieve crippling levels of Third World debt and ensured that Labour' s campaign to reduce poverty does not end at the English Channel.
According to the Council the objective of achieving good surface water status should be secured no later than 16 years after the directive enters into force, whereas Parliament's Committee on the Environment would like to see this deadline shortened to ten years.
Expenditure on research and technology actually forms a sizeable part of the budget of the European Union, after agriculture and the Structural Funds.
It is not possible at this initial stage of the process of drawing up the Charter to prejudge its content in more detail.
If a rural post office closes, usually with the only local shop attached, then a major threat to community sustainability and to social inclusion can result.
What else will the Union undertake in this respect if the demand from the opposition - bringing forward elections - is met?
Nothing of this nature has yet occurred in Austria.
Due to its importance on a world scale, the euro will be particularly exposed to the risk of counterfeiting and forgery.
I recommend the report to the House.
Thus, whether through the New Deal in Newcastle or fair trade in Freetown, Labour' s aim of opportunity for all remains the same.
I think that we have just had a great political debate, equal to the situation and to what could be expected of it.
However, we do not have to resort to extreme solutions, as Mr Katiforis initially suggested in his draft report.
For example - I believe the honourable Member referred to this - no excise taxes are applied on wine in France, whereas they are applied in the United Kingdom.
The Commission can adopt 10 amendments in their entirety.
Of course, words can make a bit of a difference, a point that was made by Mrs Malmström.
When there is growth, it must be better distributed, but a matter that is even more difficult and which more seriously affects the regions handicapped by their remoteness, be they the most remote or island regions, is the lack of growth which generally characterised the last two decades.
This is about 6% of the whole Community contribution.
These journalists are professionals who are trying to inform the public in their country and denounce the corruption existing in this regime, for which they are being persecuted.
The Commission nonetheless considers that, if this is stated separately, then that is to go against the original decision to have the proposal focus on just a few priority areas.
In the interests of equality, either the Code must be applied or it must be modified.
This principle should not only guide the public sector, it should also guide the private sector, especially financial undertakings.
In order to oppose the xenophobic statements of an apprentice dictator who is nostalgic for the Third Reich, we must take every opportunity we can to express our solidarity with the Austrians opposed to Fascism.
As Mr Barnier too pointed out, it is impossible for all the work previously done by external collaborators to be done now by the Commission' s staff.
There are also plans for a requirement to strengthen the actual structure of oil tankers visiting Community ports.
This is an issue which, as you will understand, will have to be addressed at IGC level and is an issue that only a Special European Council can authorise the Portuguese Presidency to pursue, because this kind of issue falls outside the institutional framework in which the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference will take place.
What is more, if we reduce manufacturers' liability on this issue, this will also have serious consequences for subsequent matters in other areas, for example the forthcoming directive on scrap from computers and other electronic equipment.
Mr President, when the Alliance intervened in Kosovo its objective was to re-establish conditions in this province which would enable those who wished to do so to stay there or return, with respect for their own heritage and their own culture.
If the Alliance is still active in that region, it is with the same objective.
Can you confirm the agreement made by your services in the Committee on Budgets, yes or no? Or are you going to drop this proviso, thus breaking the undertaking made to us?
The Commission has just published its opinion and it has done exactly what Parliament asked of it - to bring forward a comprehensive proposal complete with actual draft treaty articles.
There may be a series of different measures which can be taken.
Certainly it is perceived de facto to be impossible.
There is also a second reason why prudence is needed in the regulation of these undertakings.
. (IT) Mr President, the approval of this agreement with the Commission on procedures for implementing the Council decision on comitology marks the end of a saga which has kept Parliament busy for two years, along with a few enthusiasts scattered among the various institutions of the Union, whom many people do not hesitate to call masochists.
Our Group wants to encourage the fair representation of men and women in the institutions of the European Union.
Sixthly and lastly, I would remind you of a point that I have already raised in my report on vertical restrictions, namely the legal privilege of company lawyers.
Their presence offers the opportunity to a larger number of ordinary investors to participate in these markets, in which the principle of risk-spreading is taken into consideration, protected by appropriate supervision.
That is why I voted in favour of the amendments.
In my opinion, the agreement reached between Commission and Parliament is a clear rationalisation of the process.
The Commission must carry on negotiations that are a decisive attempt to have each applicant country join the Union as soon as possible.
As I pointed out earlier, the available scientific evidence is that ISA is not a threat to health.
In return for this, however, we want early notification obligations to be discontinued, rather it should just be a matter of the employee taking the justification for the posting to the other Member State along with them, and this might take the form of the contract forming the basis for his/her posting.
There is one other specific point which is dear to me: Member States should be able, if they so wish, to set up trans-national water transfers.
The third route that has been taken is in the end to superimpose above the existing systems, which are not touched, a real embryo of Community law of collective procedures and procedures for companies in difficulty.
This is not the first time we have seen oil slicks, whether intentional or unintentional.
So I should be grateful if the Commissioner could enlarge upon this question.
Indeed, this is one advantage of the present system.
It is interesting for me, as a new Member of Parliament, to see that the budget provides for hundreds of millions of euros annually for tobacco cultivation.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as I understood it, Mr Brok was actually referring to an earlier presidency still.
Amendments Nos 7 and 8 are acceptable too, provided the situation of posting is established in the Member State in which the service provider is established.
We as a European Parliament will use these opportunities to see that our issues are given the attention they deserve.
First of all, I would like to remind you of the function of the INTERREG Community initiative, founded on the principle of transnationality and innovation.
We have to work out what we are going to do with the millions of vehicles we abandon each year.
The Commission did not do that.
Subject: Article 13 TEU and Employment The draft Commission Directive establishing a general framework for equal treatment in employment and occupation gives exemption to religious organisations (Art. 4.2).
I will not even mention oil; we are all aware of the policy of groups such as Elf and Total in Africa.
It is true that the problem of the forestry sector is an extremely complex one.
The EU' s competition authority has intervened in all other areas, but not in the postal sector.
Thank you very much Mr Onesta, I am grateful for any suggestions that will make our Chamber more conducive to human comfort.
Madam President, in the heat of the moment I forgot to mention that, in my report on the excessive deficit procedure, the last paragraph of the explanatory statement contains a mistake in the Spanish version.
Madam President, under Rule 29(4) you should be kept informed by political groups of any Members who have joined a new political group or who have left a political group.
This is a classic example of how the partnership concept operates and such schemes must be supported in its broadest remit.
Some reservation about the effectiveness of Community aid is therefore called for.
I welcome the statements by the Presidency of the Council and the position of the 14 countries which have rejected official contact with an Austrian Government that includes Jörg Haider' s party.
We are of the opinion that the Member States' budget policy should be strictly supervised, to ensure that the measures continue to be taken in the spirit of the prescribed criteria at all times.
However, if we are simply carrying out a diagnosis of the incoherences in our policy, we will end up totally frustrated and, furthermore, the result will be negative.
The European Commission will become overburdened if it pursues its current policy.
It is high time we respected the rights of the Indians.
In sport the saying goes, "Do not change a winning team."
As far as your question is concerned, this problem does not only apply to Denmark. It is not only Denmark which has matters pending.
The CEN has been unable to complete its work in the time allotted.
Report (A5-0018/2000) by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference (14094/1999 - C5-0341/1999 - 1999/0825(CNS))
Informing and training young farmers at European level is vitally important.
Any country which began to make difficulties would incur a responsibility for the currency, and that country would be accountable, both morally and economically, if its actions were to contribute to a delay.
Although I wholeheartedly support this aim, I would much rather see such aid eliminated altogether.
We do not consider that Amendments Nos 2 and 14 add anything to the directive.
The debate is closed.
State intervention has always led to a high level of debt, and a higher level of debt has always damaged growth and employment, as well as social justice.
How should we describe the sinister filtration camps, which are comparable to concentration camps, in which the population is suffering the most dreadful humiliation and from which able-bodied men between 15 and 65 years old rarely get out alive?
The Socialist Group will be voting to grant discharge.
Without any doubt, this will then be a service, Mr President, to the European public and, by means of the results we produce, we will also regain and re-acquire something which we have ostensibly lost over the past couple of years.
Then there are the interests of the Member States, which, being on the receiving end, may have to start from the premise of a worst case scenario.
Promoting employment, however, is a long-winded affair and comes under structural policy.
On the question of the cost-effectiveness of the various postage weights, it is worth considering further price cuts; but that is what the postal administration itself is saying.
That is one of the political conclusions that we must draw from the grave decision of 14 Member States yesterday virtually to freeze relations with a partner.
Question No 4 by (H-0028/00):
Why do we not take our cue from the minimum level of protection afforded by the trade in transferable securities directive, Article 11 for example, which relates to good practice?
It is particularly bad this time, not least because it has affected a major European State; an incident which could happen again at any time.
Subject: Articles 6.1, 7.1 and 7.2 of the Treaty on European Union Article 6.1 of the Treaty states that the Union is based on principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
It seems to be heading this way nevertheless.
Then if it is really necessary for me to do this, I will make comments or recommendations to the Greek Government.
Madam President, I should like to add my congratulations to Commissioner Prodi's programme.
It is about attending to the needs of the internal market, creating flexibility and behaving in a reasonable and flexible way to enable the employment of third country persons both as employees and self-employed.
Let us hope that the debate in which we are now engaged will prove to have been a watershed.
And yet we owe this to the citizens of Europe.
Minister, Commissioner, everything you have just said has been very well expressed, even if a few male colleagues, if there are still any in the Chamber, perhaps gnashed their teeth.
Madam President, although I too have spent most of my life in fast cars, I agree with my colleague, Mr Florenz, that the directive on scrapping cars must make it clear that vintage cars are not included.
If you add the strangeness of a single currency that is not built upon a State, itself based upon a people, you can easily explain what remains a great mystery in Brussels, the markets' suspicion of the euro.
Unlike Mrs Kaufmann, I am not in favour of extending supervision over the European Central Bank as I am an advocate of independence for the European Central Bank.
Our older people, even though on social welfare, can enjoy the benefits of travel.
I would, however, remind you, and this is my final point, that the Commission is not the only Community institution.
The car industry is concerned about and half expecting repercussions, which is a serious problem which we must address accordingly.
Yet we might consider the rate of economic progress and the rate of eliminating poverty in countries such as India and Tanzania over the 40 or 50 years since they became independent.
We will publish this material and bring it forward in the debate on the Swoboda report later this week.
The common position stipulates that manufacturers should not only bear the cost, they should also take back end-of-life vehicles.
If we are to be able to motivate everybody, I believe it is extremely important for this message to be sent all the way from the top down or, if you prefer, from the bottom up.
There are few things more certain in life than taxes, death and pollution.
The Treaty of Amsterdam states quite clearly that, where people' s health is concerned, Article 152 is the correct legal base, and may I say to our own Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market that it is simply not good enough to look at the Commission' s proposal and say, there is nothing in it about health and consumer protection, so it has nothing to do with health and consumer protection.
Some may think that the budgetary point should be looked at in due course.
Statement by the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all very much indeed for this debate, which all in all I have found to be encouraging and supportive, and it has also shown that there is a great deal of support in this House for the policy of the Member States and that of the Commission.
In my view, as far as China is concerned, and knowing that the European Union' s policy towards China has been a total failure, allegedly constructive dialogue has got us nowhere or, worse, it has given the Chinese new pretexts for increasing repression and for strengthening religious repression and the repression of freedoms (as Mrs Wallström has said with regard to the Internet) in all sectors, in Tibet, in inland Mongolia, in eastern Turkistan.
Still relating to Thursday' s sitting, the PPE Group has requested that Mrs Cederschiöld' s report on increasing protection by penal sanctions against counterfeiting in connection with the introduction of the euro should be brought forward to Wednesday as the last item on the agenda.
In this Parliament we constantly talk about the need to promote employment and jobs in Europe and yet we constantly pass measures which will have the effect of reducing employment.
But seriously.
Madam President, I should like to tell Mr Wurtz that the Commission' s doctrine is not the Brezhnev doctrine of limited sovereignty and that, until proved otherwise, we are not in the situation where Articles 6 and 7 would be applicable.
On the contrary, you are deriding the true victims of National Socialism and playing down what the fascist dictators did.
We Radicals have tabled amendments which we are submitting to the House in order to consolidate this text, and for example, to request - just for the sake of mentioning Articles 6 and 7 - that the very minimum be done, i.e., that the European Parliament should also be involved in drawing up the European Constitution and that a proposal be made for the European Parliament to adopt the amendments to the Treaty.
I share the view expressed by Mrs Theato that it would not be acceptable in any way at all for us to seek to operate new arrangements without a change in the law.
We are counting on the Portuguese Presidency, we are counting on ourselves and we are counting on the Commission so that we can hold constructive and decisive debates on all of this at the Intergovernmental Conference.
He acknowledged that 15 million Europeans are currently looking for work and that unemployment is the main source of poverty and social exclusion.
The Portuguese Presidency has focused on two things: sustainable pension systems and social accession.
Question No 30 by (H-0793/99):
I share the Commission' s preference for the use of global grants while urging, however, that the accounting requirements of national and regional authorities should be precisely and painstakingly defined.
I consider technical support to be necessary but, given the problems with the former TAOs, no new TAOs should be set up without Parliament' s approval so as to prevent political responsibility from being passed down to the technical assistance level.
The first is to establish equivalence, saying: in the final analysis, bankruptcy in France is the same thing as bankruptcy in England or in Germany.
The funding of activities for the implementation, adaptation and development of Community policy in the environment sector and the incorporation of the environment in other policies, particularly ones that contribute towards sustainable development, are central elements of the regulation we are to vote upon.
Mr President, I have taken the floor in order to reaffirm the need for the modernisation of social protection, which is much more then simply one more step in the construction of Europe.
We have now been waiting in vain for 18 months for the Commission to put forward proposals, so I should be grateful if the Commissioner could let me know today when we are likely to have a new, modern Europe-wide postal system.
The Commission, Mr Barnier, Mr Vitorino and several Member States are equally receptive to the idea.
Given the urgency surrounding this issue, has the Commission considered the possibility of completely changing the structure of the anti-fraud office by moving to a solution which would entail the fight against fraud, in the Member States and in the European institutions, coming under the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice?
The Mediterranean, particularly in some zones, is an extremely important spawning area for the bluefin tuna which is of enormous commercial value.
For you, the south is Andalusia but for us Andalusians it is Africa.
We are thus not moving into a period in the coming years of reduced activity, we are moving into a period of increased activity.
I can also say, in respect of your concerns on energy and especially on the environment - which, as you know, I share - that we are concluding the review of the organisation of environmental State aid.
Thank you, Commissioner.
We in Parliament strongly support the Middle East peace process.
The reports produced by the WHO indicate that it is fully aware of the alarming infant mortality situation, and it has focused its efforts on improving basic conditions in maternity and general hospitals.
Mr President, our sympathy and our solidarity go out to those people and regions stricken by the disaster, but good intentions are not enough, there must be compensation for the damage and losses covering both the restoration of the environment and the shellfish farms and fishing equipment.
In more direct terms, to the extent that this measure could be deemed an indirect restriction on capital streams, this would contravene the Treaty of Rome.
The Commission will endeavour, for all these specific guidelines, to quantify the data and to obtain specific information based on the implementation of the new Community framework for 2000 to 2006.
I have proposed in the proposal at hand to delete all currently existing Community rules on scrapie in sheep and goats and to transpose them to the framework proposal for a regulation.
It is the central part of our reform. Our staff are the Commission' s best asset, its richest resource.
We do not have any such officers, but black grandmothers are in fact to be found.
We could ask ourselves why the Austrians are rejecting 10 years, 13 years of party politics which has made one country - Austria - corrupt and rotten, just as it is now corrupting countries such as Italy, Belgium and other European Union Member States.
We need to be careful and be sure that national governments try to convince their respective parliaments to ratify solutions that correspond to the Union' s requirements for growth and that they do not hide behind supposed resistance put up by the parliaments to avoid signing appropriate conclusions at the Intergovernmental Conference table.
Two other points I must make, because this is an essential question central to reform.
The newspaper reports that the honourable Member made reference to seem to me to be misleading and inaccurate.
The solution, as I see it, lies in clearly encouraging entrepreneurship.
Mr Purvis, I found your methodologically provocative remark about the tender interesting and certainly worth exploring.
I believe that we should be pleased about this.
Perhaps with more dialogue and explanation we can overcome some of that.
Therefore, I do not believe I need to restate the number of factors which demand this investment in urban areas, factors which are on the agenda, and I would like to say to the Commissioner that we hope he will be sensitive in this respect.
Austria is a free, independent and sovereign country.
Our committee avoided embarrassing itself by making a series of amendments of which I tabled 14, many of which were accepted by the rapporteur for which I thank him sincerely.
Competition is certainly fundamental to the social market economy and European competition policy is a success story; take the energy and telecommunications sectors, where there has been a demonstrable lowering of prices and improvement in quality of service.
This would involve legal uncertainty as to the status of the list and cannot, therefore, be approved.
The current directive prohibits the use of vaccination and requires that all fish in an affected farm be slaughtered whether affected by the disease or not.
The best form of prevention we can offer for the future is the sure knowledge we can offer charterers that they will be heavily penalised in civil, criminal and financial terms if they are not extremely vigilant regarding the matter of the safety of the vessels they select.
The same cannot be said of the first proposal.
As a result, the Commission services are not systematically informed of all projects selected.
"On 17 February, Mrs Nicole Fontaine, President of the European Parliament, received as guests, at their request, the representatives of the Forum d' Ermua.
Civil society must be involved in the planning and implementation of these projects.
The Commission document sets out to focus on the initiatives to be taken at Community level, especially through the fifth framework programme for research and technical development, which is quite obviously something I approve of.
In this regard, too, the committee is prepared to go further than the Commission.
Mr President, Commissioner, does regulating additives in feedingstuffs come under competition or consumer policy?
This is why we need to be sensible about applying quotas.
But I repeat that the most important contribution we can make is to try to assist in the resolution of that conflict which has had such harmful economic and humanitarian results.
Of course, there has been disproportionate use of force in the present conflict.
As has always been the case, there are offences that transcend European offences, as it were, or at least there is the potential for them to do so, and these might include money-laundering, receiving stolen goods, and forming a criminal organisation.
We all regret the deaths which have occurred and the violent and disproportionate reactions against the immigrant workers.
Question No 8 by (H-0042/00):
Mr President, it is very likely that, during this century, good-quality water will be of even more strategic importance than oil.
Our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs was, after all, in overall charge of analysing considerable shortcomings and failures to carry out checks in cases related to LEONARDO.
If it is of any comfort to her, the Irish have not got their channel yet either.
We shall then have an appropriate tool for working, particularly in the majority of the regions affected by the storms.
(SV) We have abstained from voting for Jan Andersson' s report on a coordinated strategy for modernising social security.
There are two reasons why we are saying no.
But information which includes a fundamental disagreement between scientists on core issues relating to food safety is also an issue of serious concern.
Yet these are the main themes in any discussion of strong European institutions in which only day-to-day tasks of execution are decentralised and a collective vision is promoted within an indistinct whole. In this scenario the governments and national parliaments are merged with the regional and even local authorities and with the civil society, all of which are described, with no form of hierarchy, as 'integral elements of European governance' .
There is no lack of examples amongst European texts, and we all know how much debate and argument is caused by a lack of clarity and precision.
This raises the question as to what these standards and values are based on.
Finally, I would like to emphasise that we continue to strive to maintain a high level of health protection in accordance with our obligations under the Treaty.
The whole question as to whether we have the legal authority to do this has been outlined by Mrs Palacio.
But this new course of action is very exciting.
Commissioner, thank you for giving me a well-intentioned answer, which has been rigorous and well-argued.
Mr President, fourteen Member States have imposed bilateral sanctions on another Member State, because a democratically elected government was formed there.
Safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods
We must take action on this at the Intergovernmental Conference, and I firmly hope that this opinion, that was given reluctantly, will not mean that the European Parliament ceases to exert pressure on the Council and the Member States to make sure that this Intergovernmental Conference is not merely a technical exercise, but rouses the passions that we saw a few hours ago in Parliament.
I believe that we, the Parliament of the European Union, who are the elected representatives of the citizens, must give sharper impetus to ensuring that the European Union provides for the regulation of every facet of the lives of its citizens, including that of justice, and that of pensions.
Clearly, the importance of tourism for the economy of regions traditionally regarded as tourist destinations, southern regions for example, is very different, and should be studied carefully.
Mr President, Mrs Cederschiöld, ladies and gentlemen, how safe is the euro?
The precautions which we are preparing to take in respect of feedingstuffs must also be applied to the food for the very farm animals which reach our plates.
But if the development in the region of a more democratic society and largely market-based economy is to be encouraged, we are convinced that immediate and concrete steps must be taken to intensify the struggle against corruption and to make international aid more effective for reconstruction and development.
The Commission considers that the type of phasing-out proposed in the common position is easier to apply from a technical point of view.
But what then instead?
I should like, naturally, to refer to a specific sector to which I am very closely attached, i.e. agriculture, the main water-consuming sector. Agriculture must accept its share of 'polluter pays' charges, and has in fact already started to do so, but account must also be taken of its special characteristics and constraints, especially in arid regions.
However, when it comes to safety, I am rather sceptical because safety in Sweden, for example, is in principle no different from safety in Germany, Italy or Austria.
The same is true with regard to immigration policy.
Enlargement appears to be an end in itself, but unless decisions are made on a social policy, a common value and an institution to strengthen the cohesion and democratisation of the Union, the Europe bequeathed to us at the end of Mr Prodi' s presidency may well be a simple common market area within the context of generalised globalisation, rather than the community of destiny which we hope for.
As we see it, there will be a dovetailing of three mechanisms in the future: a system of independent prior approval by the financial controller, concomitant and follow-up control by the internal audit service - also known as the audit service - which has yet to be set up, and finally, there will be the targeted tracking-down of irregularities by OLAF, the new anti-fraud office.
As has already been said, helicopters are the priority and it is equally important that there is no delay in providing this humanitarian aid. Otherwise, apart from the tragedy created by the floods, the next tragedy will arise: that of a lack of aid to the people, who will die of hunger and disease and who will die in the floods.
Excessive in comparison with what iron rule, what criteria of efficiency?
The war is an extension of degenerated underdevelopment.
This, Madam President, is the hypocrisy of the left.
I am now delighted to hear that, this weekend, Mr Javier Solana is to call the interior ministers together to discuss the question of policing.
This two-year preparatory period will be used to strengthen regional integration processes and the ACP countries' capacity to conduct trade negotiations.
A paper such as this is no basis for a scoreboard.
The rapporteur has done just that and that is a good sign.
Last autumn, we already heard Mr Bernard Kouchner call for a civilian police force.
Examples in Germany and Sweden show that this certainly is a risk.
For the first time in Finland, the women candidates outnumbered the men.
We know that readmission clauses are included in the cooperation and association agreements.
Secondly, it will be important to approach development policies from a different angle in this context, taking advantage of their capacity for correcting imbalances and reducing inequality.
I believe that the rapporteur is simply playing with figures.
In the past, the Commission had requested quantitative records of the losses incurred by companies because of such bankruptcies, so that it could form an opinion, and asked the European confederations of hotel-and-restaurant owners and tourist agencies, HOTREC and ECTAA, to work out and draw up a regulation to govern the relations between them.
This explains why the initial figures given in the press, setting the volume of the forces to be built up at around 200 000 men, is close to reality, which has certainly surprised the uninitiated.
You are now proposing to give all decision-making power to a handful of officials. The Member States, local authorities and NGOs will simply become enforcers of decisions handed down from above, all on an equal footing in their submission to Brussels.
Under no circumstances can we, as responsible politicians, allow what is currently happening to continue, with young girls practically bought in the countries of the East and coming here to be abused on the cheap.
The fifteen sets of national provisions will gradually be abandoned, permitting greater use of Community law, which a higher number of protagonists will be able to apply.
We are to know who is on each committee.
The Council' s failings in this respect are a source of much regret.
I want to thank the Commission for what I perceive as a very positive answer.
Yet it is quite clear that even after a transitional period a number of countries will simply be unable to open their markets yet to the chill winds of free trade without wrecking their own domestic economy.
I suggest that you clarify this matter at that time, if you so wish and if Mr Prodi agrees.
Living examples of this have been the Pinochet-Ugarten case, Kosovo and, in milder form in our own Union, the debate surrounding the government decision in Austria.
Finally, the issue of officials.
Mr President, confronted with the burgeoning phenomenon of organised crime at international level, the Member States must surely cooperate with one another as much as possible.
In order to prevent this threat to the system, it is ready to do anything, including overruling the outcome of free elections, including setting up a thought police, including establishing a new form of totalitarianism.
The legislative programme is, in fact, a litany of subjects over which the people are to be deprived of influence and in connection with which, Mr Prodi, you are to take influence away from the people, even on social questions.
Amendment No 4 makes it clear that the object of the exercise is the evaluation of fisheries resources generally.
At last we are convinced that our young people may start to see an end to the tragic unemployment, the source of so much despair, if we can export to neighbouring countries the know-how which we have gained thanks to the operation of the European structural funds.
These negotiations took the form of indirect discussions mediated by the UN special representative, Álvaro de Soto.
The Council must now convene in March and make the relevant decision.
On the contrary, it looks as if we have entered an exponential curve which is widening the gap still further. This is shown by the following figures: the income gap between the richest and poorest fifths was 30:1 in 1960, 60:1 in 1990 and 74:1 in 1997.
We now already have major social problems and major social costs to find from the public budgets, which is a problem for many Member States.
The recent restoring of certain internal border controls leads me to believe that we need a detailed analysis of the conditions for adopting a legislative instrument based on Article 62 of the Treaty.
Nor can the Commission approve Amendment No 14, which is contrary to the Commission' s right of initiative.
There must be flexibility.
Having said that, I thought your question related more to the partnership issue.
However, there is some concern over the lack of progress made despite the good and honest intentions expressed by the European Union.
In order to complete the programme and be able to present it, we first need to complete our consultations with Parliament, the social partners and non-governmental organisations.
Tourism is also in the list of subjects which do not figure as new areas of competence for the EU.
Not to use women' s talents in decision making is an unacceptable waste.
They cover the inclusion in the agreement of arrangements establishing a political dialogue with FYROM.
People may have to risk their lives in Kosovo, but that is the price of freedom at the moment.
I liked what Mr Seixas da Costa said about Father Christmas.
We do believe that it is extremely important to give financial support to conventional fishing and craft trades and to boost the income of fishermen during periods when moratoria on fishing are in force: in short, we must make it possible to carry on a major, responsible economic activity while still ensuring proper respect for the environment.
The Lomé Convention essentially benefits a few large industrial or financial conglomerates, which continue to pillage those countries and perpetuate their economic dependence, notably on the former colonial powers.
In short, Commissioner, I would therefore like to know whether in this case, the precautionary principle as you understand it, would in any case, require the product to be taken off the market, until such time as another laboratory provides evidence to the contrary.
Finally, there must be improvements in the training of crews.
The concept of continuing reduction as in Amendment No 58 is much better.
Article 18 allows interception in another Member State without its involvement.
As an Irish Member of the European Parliament, coming from a country which has large reserves of rich water, I support the vast majority of the proposals included in this directive.
Various Member States have taken one-off measures to be able to meet the criteria.
The cooperation agreement with South Africa is a prime example.
I agree with Parliament that the common position' s sixteen-year timeframe for implementing these measures must be considerably reduced.
Mr President, I should very much like to thank the rapporteur for his splendid report.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt made reference to the question of the appropriate legal base, whether it should be Article 37 or Article 152.
With regard to the amount which is quoted in the Brok report (EUR 130 million), I also want to say, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, that we must negotiate our way towards finding a sum of money.
Human rights and civil liberties are inextricably linked.
Thank you very much, Mr Vitorino, for your valuable contribution to this Question Time.
With every single geographical extension to the area covered by the EU, we have seen how extensions in breadth have been followed by intensive extensions in depth, and that is precisely what the draft resolution from the Committee is contemplating, especially in paragraph 7 which says that there should be more thorough integration in depth.
We therefore have unstable communities which are infiltrated with crime, drug-dealing and gangs.
There is little point in having streets which are now wonderfully lit, with new pavements, with newly paved road surfaces, all whitewashed and beautiful, if we are not able to fill them with activity and, therefore, employment.
Several of you mentioned points which must be included in the second report on cohesion, and your rapporteur mentioned some of these.
The World Bank has decided not to fund the project, which will displace 20 000 Kurds, potentially limit the fresh water supply to Syria and Iraq and cause ecological damage.
Given the already advanced state of these two countries, compared to other applicants, this should easily allow them to be 'technically and administratively' ready for membership at the end of the 5-year programme.
So, once again, why not leave things as they are and allow the public service to fund itself and to guarantee the annual excess cost of its operations in the public interest, valued in France, by Senator Larcher, as it happens, at FF 8 billion?
This requires internal stability.
It is a demand for simple justice and for democracy and, as such, a condition for political legitimacy.
I ask Member States to grasp this opportunity. This programme must work at full capacity.
Furthermore, it should be noted that these provisions were adopted within the Council by a procedure without debate and without consulting Parliament.
It is up to the Members States and the Community to take the necessary initiatives to achieve this.
The applicant States ought not merely to tag along behind but, instead, share the EU' s ambition of becoming a world leader in the communications field.
Madam President, an omission appears to have been made. In the list of tabled motions for a resolution which you have just read out, no mention is made of the compromise motion tabled jointly by the PSE, ELDR, GUE/NGL and Greens/EFA Groups and by Mrs Kuntz and Mr Coûteaux.
Although we are looking at all the problems caused by these products in ethical and health terms, it is their use which must be questioned today.
Mr President, a White Paper, by definition, is not something you can take or leave.
We are now making in the Commission the necessary preparations so that negotiations can start in March.
Not only is this coordination essential but, as we stated in our opinion, exchanges and the dissemination of expertise and good practice must also be essential.
It is vital that the IGC prepares the way to accept the installation of a fundamental rights regime within the Treaty.
Mr President, Commissioner, I second all those who expressed their solidarity with the storm victims.
Its argument was one of priority.
In the particular case that the honourable Member has in mind, not only did the Commission easily and quickly come to a decision to waive the immunity of a former Commissioner, but the former Commissioner herself advised the Commission of her desire that the immunity should be lifted.
The 1995 Convention, on the other hand, authorises the filing of secondary proceedings, thereby creating situations which are exceptions to the general rule that the Commission would like to see accepted.
Madam President, the Commission was correct to make food safety one of its top priorities.
The number of departments has been reduced.
In its unaltered form, the present directive could, in fact, have very unfortunate and long-term consequences for the environment and for our drinking water.
I believe we must avoid further subsidies and should try to ensure that the private supplier and the consumer benefit from the new system.
I can only urge the Conference of Presidents to reach agreement as quickly as possible on the correct way to proceed in matters of comitology, i.e. the correct way to quote.
It now appears that this desire is more serious.
It was natural that these élites would exclude any political concerns from their field of manoeuvre, thus protecting themselves from any democratic control and basically managing to be both illegitimate and irresponsible.
Irrespective of where we are and notwithstanding our class, race or religion and whether we stay at home or go out to work, it is nonetheless a fact that, in all areas of society, the structures are such that we are thoroughly subordinate to men (albeit with a few individual exceptions, it is perhaps best to add).
We are making an overall value judgement about NATO' s action, and this overall value judgement is positive. We agree with the general view of NATO' s action.
Mr President, I have two questions. I shall try to be very brief indeed.
When it comes to pollution, like sin, we are all against it, but from there it is a far cry from believing that just because a measure is proposed against this evil it is necessarily good.
We state that good governance and an end to corruption are mandatory but we continue to pour hundreds of thousands of euros into Swiss bank accounts via the portfolios of a number of Heads of State.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there remains, however, one immediate problem: the need to provide help for all Mozambicans who have been afflicted, many of whose lives are in danger, in their flooded villages, hoping that they will be rescued.
Of course, that falls within your remit; my next question falls within Mr Nielson' s remit in that it concerns environmental cooperation, in particular matters pertaining to water and the problems surrounding the cotton monocultures, which are the cause of great aridity.
I listened very carefully to what Mr Seixas da Costa had to say on transparency and the Intergovernmental Conference.
The proposed changes are twofold: the first would permit the use of vaccination as a weapon in this battle.
Regarding their content, as you know, ladies and gentlemen of this House, they are focused on three strategic priorities that your rapporteur pointed out very clearly but, at the same time, very passionately, as I understood her presentation just now.
And finally, Mr President, frankly, I am not going to give examples, but there are many cases in which legal language is used with an alarming lack of accuracy.
And these are the consequences!
Before the vote at the plenary sitting, new amendments have been tabled such as have already been voted down by the Committee.
But we feel that there is a legal obligation for a proposal to be made.
VOTE
This was the opening statement of Commission President, Prodi, when he presented the strategic objectives of the European Commission for the next five years.
. (EL) The EU' s Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, in the form of a joint agreement as established by Article 310 of the EU Treaty, can contribute to the stabilisation and development of that Balkan republic.
I conclude, Mr President, by thanking the House for its attention during an unavoidably lengthy speech and by expressing sincere gratitude to the rapporteur, to the Committee on Budgetary Control and to the other committees which gave their opinions.
Sometimes the more we speak, the less we hear - motions: words; conventions: words; treaties: words - if we are not careful, words themselves become a substitute for real action.
Bearing this in mind, this House should, in any event, demand that, before the Community support frameworks for the period in question are approved, they be studied and submitted for debate in this Parliament, specifically in light of the guidelines that we have presented today.
The cost of maintaining the environment, which we all enjoy, must be met by all of us, and the LIFE programme is the only financial instrument aimed exclusively at the environment and whose projects have generally been effective.
It is therefore quite legitimate and even imperative that we ask ourselves, what purpose do the current common standards and rules serve?
We must never forget to defend civil society.
More supervision nationally - supervision by national governments of national banks - and internationally, for example by means of the IMF.
Scottish salmon farming is the biggest in the European Union and accommodates 90% of the British aquacultural industry.
As the representative for a French overseas department, the island of Réunion, a land of racial and ethnic intermixing, where the population has been forged in the course of the last three centuries by the successive contributions of Europeans, blacks from Africa or Madagascar, enlisted men from India or Pakistan, or even Chinese, every day I experience the profound truth of the remark by Saint-Exupéry, "In being different to me, you are not doing me harm, brother, but enriching me!"
It really is quite nonsensical that partnerships set up in 1994 are being rolled over now to the exclusion of new inter-regional links.
So coordination and cooperation are facts of life. But convergence should be about goals, not means.
It therefore makes no sense to maintain that legal insecurity.
It can be used on evidence from a minority or where science is incomplete.
But all this, in effect, is so much rhetoric when we look at the national, regional and local obstacles which continue to block the operation of a true European single market.
Questions to Mr Barnier
Amendments Nos 4, 11 and 30 mean that heavy metals have to be separated from the waste before recycling.
Following the statement of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and the Commission, I believe we can all agree that the current situation with regard to human rights is far removed from what we would all like to see.
My second brief comment is to thank the Portuguese Presidency, particularly Mr Seixas da Costa, for his proactive approach.
Fulfil your obligations to Parliament in a generous spirit, thus preparing for the future.
What means will the Charter use to ensure that it clearly guarantees equality between the sexes?
For this Union of ours is not a grouping of neighbouring nation states who are simply coming to mutual arrangements to improve their collective circumstances.
Despite these objections of mine to the Council' s action and despite my view that it is better to work for integration than to employ isolating tactics, it was important to show clearly where the European Parliament stands on questions of racism, which is why I voted in favour of the resolution at the final vote.
Parliament' s analysis has highlighted another issue which is the development of risk in the stock markets.
These Funds specify that investments in the renewable energy sector must be encouraged where they favour the development of local resources, where they contribute to reducing dependency on energy imports and where they create jobs at local level.
Mr President, I too should like to thank the Council and the Commission for their reports and, in common with others, express my regret at the fact that coherence policy has not been given more prominence.
But his portfolio of information technology and tourism actually go very well together.
We must get away from the idea that we are rushing to put out a fire in one corner, only then to have to rush again to put out the next one. As Mr Blak said, we must instead establish a system with clear roles.
We have done a lot in the Balkans: the new European Reconstruction Agency for Kosovo, the Balkans Task Force and new regulations to speed up procedures.
If the latter do not have the required professional competence, then nothing will happen and gender mainstreaming will no longer be a priority.
By this I mean that there are aspects of the form and procedure of the Community institutions' workings which are not accessible to the other institutions, and not only as regards the Commission' s relationship with Parliament, but also as regards the Commission' s relationship with the Council.
Of course, Cuba must meet all the standard conditions, just like any other member.
Nevertheless, I would like to say that the European Union is aware that the resources it has devoted to Kosovo reflect the financial limitations it has to work within.
In more general terms, this Presidency must start to change the behaviour and interaction of our people with minority groups and immigrants.
In addition, there are Community directives, but they are seldom applied, if at all, due to the insufficient number of national inspectors.
We are also worried by the recent increase in the number of political detentions.
I totally agree with the points put so passionately by the Mrs Pack, either before trial or following judgement.
I therefore believe it to be absolutely necessary to establish an interinstitutional dialogue so that we might reach a good conclusion and put all the finishing touches to this essential reform.
We believe that the directive has a few weaknesses that we in the House should work on to produce a directive which is genuinely ground-breaking.
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal for a directive now under discussion brings with it several welcome reforms to the current legal provisions.
Our parliamentary Group will table an amendment in this respect and we expect a positive message from you.
Why should we add to them?
Despite the pledges made, violations in, for example, Alfanyurt have still not been investigated.
We have to bear that in mind when approving this programme.
I was in the region of Lorraine at the time of this terrible storm which destroyed around 20% of deciduous forest.
.
If that is the case, we have not progressed one little bit since pagan times.
This is a very sad opportunity for Europe to renew its forestry heritage in line with the role that this plays in wildlife and nature conservation and in our economies.
Malta has vibrant light and heavy industry, growing financial services, good agriculture, magnificent tourism and an amazing range of employment opportunities, all of this on an island virtually barren of natural resources.
The party to which the Mayor of El Ejido belongs should, according to the commitments signed in this Charter, act forcefully.
The Committee on behalf of which I am speaking, namely the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, decided in December, on the assumption that the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture would draft such a good report, that we could waive our opinion.
Mr Nielson identified the problems of lack of concerted action and the need for better complementarity with Member States.
This has consequences for free competition between the different postal administrations.
At the moment, there is a huge shortage of suitable personnel in Kosovo.
Speculative activities are growing beyond measure and are, in turn, generating profits which will eventually prove to be merely fictitious.
We need to open that debate.
The situation in Mitrovica is appalling, and involves very special tensions, and I believe that the measures taken over the last few hours to create safe conditions in that area are to be welcomed.
And less social protection means less purchasing power, fewer healthy employees and fewer happy employees.
The ship Erika has been investigated four times in the course of the last two years.
One is to ensure high quality training, another is to ensure that no Directorate-General can take over financial control responsibilities unless and until the auditor service is absolutely certain of the robustness of the system, another is the establishment of a central financial service, as honourable Members will see from the White Paper, to ensure that those standards are set and supervised, and there is also the additional belt and braces and boilersuit approach of having an effective and independent internal audit service.
We are naturally delighted that Indonesia is under new rule and that Mr Wahid and Mrs Sukarnoputri are the new President and Vice-President.
That makes it a question of health, not just approximating laws, which is why we in the Committee on Agriculture take the view that the legal base - Article 37 - is not admissible here and that the Commission should submit its proposal to us on the basis of Article 152, that is to say with codecision by Parliament.
These two considerations are diametrically opposed to each other, and I really fail to grasp how such a proposal can end up on the table.
Culture does not only fall under the banner of culture but also under that of all kinds of other areas.
It is also because liberalisation is necessary in order to be able to keep up with technological advances and, moreover, because it will lead to lower prices. All that, we are assured, will be more easily attained in a free and competitive market.
These challenges must be explained to our citizens who are concerned about them and questioning them.
Water is our most important resource and we must use our vote to ensure that the incentives and pressure are there to really comply with the OSPAR convention.
Mr President, the common position is sound, but it is up to Parliament to improve the common position on end-of-life vehicles.
Therefore, Mr President, our proposals, which we will specify in another report, together with the proposals of the Commission, which has produced an excellent document - and I am happy to be able to say this here to Mr Barnier - are going to be used as conference documents.
My Amendment No 47 is therefore a warning for amateurs.
This is an area of unanimity, as Mr MacCormick knows, and unless all Member States agree on the equalisation of excise taxes, it will not happen.
The governments in the developing countries are always faced with a difficult dilemma: whom should they support, the farmers or the people in the large cities who want cheap food?
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you very much for your statement.
Mr President, a precise assessment of the effects of the first directive is the least we can ask for when approaching the future of the public postal service.
We had heard about this regrettable incident.
We should reinstate that instrument and we should make the rules tight so that only in situations where grave disasters occur will we call up this particular instrument.
Mr Solana, I am sitting quite close to you, close enough to see your face.
Granted this, the new Intergovernmental Conference must not fail to include in its agenda issues which, properly addressed, would ensure the correct operation of all and not just some of the European Union' s institutions.
This draft decision therefore lays down a set of minimum standards intended to harmonise criminal law in this field and make its application by each Member State simpler and more effective.
But, ladies and gentlemen, if we do remove every reference and any recourse to a TAO at a later date then this will have a consequence and that will be an increase in the number of officials' jobs needed to do this work, because somebody will have to do it and I cannot keep redeploying the same staff indefinitely, at a time when our duties are increasing with the pre-accession structural instrument (ISPA) and in order to ensure that, the Community appropriations for which I am responsible, often in partnership or on terms of coresponsibility with Member States, are monitored better, with discipline and transparency.
I am referring to the situation in Austria, where the Commission has remained true to its role, being duty-bound to work towards the cohesion of the Union, but also the unwavering guardian of the Treaties, ready to punish every minor breach of the principles of democracy, law and respect for minorities.
You must go further, towards reconciling the people with Europe, in particular those people who are falling victim to economic, social and, probably, in the future, technological divisions.
I have heard promises that we will establish a stability pact in the southern Caucuses.
Mr President, let us be clear from the outset: when it comes to cooperation, coherence is far from being the watchword.
At the same time, however, we shut our eyes to the Union' s own problems: to the violence, inequality, and fourth world reality, which is part of everyday life in the EU.
It says that this should be done despite the principle of relative stability.
Without wishing to ignore the progress which has been made, we, the European Parliament, would like to draw your attention to the unwillingness on the part of the Council to implement these decisions in many areas, as well as its lack of common vision and, in particular, the lack of transparency and cooperation with the European Parliament.
The more we talk about Europe and what Europe is doing for daily life, even when we disagree, the better this will be, provided that we talk about this objectively.
By having the opportunity to show their true merit, by eliminating as far as possible the barriers associated to the specifics of their condition as women, and not in the context of a conflict in which women seem to be attacking male privilege, women will demonstrate the benefits to be gained by facilitating a situation where their professional careers may flourish. In this way they will succeed in altering balances which are still not in their favour.
They need a 'European soul' , as a distinguished Spanish professor once said.
We need to rethink and recognise that water is our most important asset and that our responsibility towards it goes far beyond the present generation.
Efforts should be made here to achieve shorter times.
However, we should never blind ourselves to scientific research, we should never cease to gather information, we should never cease to explore improvements in existing systems and, if necessary, we should at least consider policy changes.
We must implement what the directive insists on, that the postal service is available to everybody.
This is what we are doing and we are committed to this.
Finally, our fourth criticism is that if an implementing measure is blocked through the comitology system it is referred back, not to both branches of the legislative authority, but to the Council alone, which has the right possibly to take an alternative measure.
To continue would be economic suicide.
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, I must indicate my complete and categorical condemnation of the terrorist attack on 22 February in Vitoria which took the lives of the socialist MP and spokesman in the Basque parliament, Fernando Buesa, and his bodyguard, Jorge Díez.
Therefore, two months after the Helsinki declaration and decision, a Political and Security Committee meeting has taken place for the first time within the European Union.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
This Convention will lead to gross abuses of people' s rights to privacy.
We have to bring in the most stringent rules and we have to make them work.
We can therefore table only one additional item.
The White Paper before us is also the product of contributions from the Commission staff: they knew that the Commission would have to undergo substantial reform in order to become, once again, that internationally-admired institution which was at the heart of European history.
But I appeal to this House to take a balanced and common-sense approach on this issue.
If I may, however, just make a few comments on the method.
However, before this happens, I must tell you about a telephone conversation which I had a few hours ago with the Council of Europe representative on the subject of Chechnya.
Funds have often been granted for projects which have had no lasting benefit for the area concerned.
The reason our timetable includes the drafting of this Charter is because we are at a key point in our history. Our Union needs to redefine the values on which it is based, both within its current borders and also with a view to the imminent enlargements which we earnestly desire, but not under just any conditions.
Now, a sound common position submitted by the Council is in danger of being changed for the worse from an environmental point of view here in Parliament.
There should be a more frequent rotation of employees, especially at the top of the hierarchy.
A Europe which defends its values of human dignity and democratic rule of law both internally and to the outside world and, at the same time, looks after its global interests with dignity, patience and convincing self-confidence.
Will we give our backing to forward-looking environmental and consumer protection or, as the amendments of Florenz, Lange and others cause me to fear, will we allow ourselves to become a servant of the German car industry?
This is where Mr Solana, the High Representative to the Council, could come into his own.
Too many young, new officials are leaving their jobs after just a few years.
As you requested, I have decided to remove all references to the use of a technical assistance office in the text until the outcome of the debate in progress within the Commission on the service outsourcing systems.
We must be aware of this connection; I do not support those who make sweeping statements to the effect that the greenhouse effect is to blame for this storm, but one thing we can be relatively certain of is that we have reason to fear further catastrophes if we do not soon alter our course!
Just consider the facts: we looked at Austria a while ago, but we can also look at the stock markets, Mr President: given that the euro, that great undertaking, has fallen 16% against the dollar in a year, then perhaps, I will not say a government, but a good head of a family should ask himself whether one can conceivably tell the citizens that the only subjects open to negotiation are the number of Commissioners or similar issues.
We consider the English version to be the original text.
For example, the situation proposed by Article 18, to which many speakers have drawn attention, where each country, each large country if you will, each country with the technical ability, can enter another country and monitor its telecommunications without even securing the second country' s approval.
We have had problems in the past in terms of our responsibility in carrying out discharge because we have not had access to the documents we should have had.
Legal immigrants must be integrated socially without any excuses or delays.
This means prioritising sex equality, the adaptation of the social model and, above all, an unequivocal fight against populism whenever our economic and social cohesion is under threat.
The Netherlands has an exemplary model for disposing of cars as per the wishes of the directive and the issue of whether the buyer of a new car should pay or, in the case of end-of-life vehicles currently driving around, the manufacturer, has nothing, absolutely nothing, to do with ecology; it is a simple question of competition!
But I would like to say that safety is a priority objective for the Commission.
We need to make our citizens feel at home, according to Mr Swoboda, and I agree.
I would like to point out that in May 1999 we adopted a new system for supporting rural development which was the fourth Community reference framework for sustainable rural development.
I would take this opportunity to ask him a couple of questions directly.
However, I do want to listen to all the points of view.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has rightly led the way in promoting human rights in the European Union.
So Parliament should send a message, since that is the wish of the vast majority.
What do you intend to do to promote equal treatment in wages for men and women?
Madam President, I would like to thank the Council and Commission for a useful and thorough conciliation procedure and one that was good-tempered all round, which is not always the case.
Indeed, it is not just about modernisation of Community law, more than anything it is about transparency of decisions taken in individual cases, about the possibility of decisions actually being able to implement decisions, for the European competition policy will be dependent on the population' s acceptance, together with that of the political bodies and enterprises concerned.
The Presidency and the Council can realise what was incomprehensibly rejected in Tampere, even though this summit provided an important basis.
They are increasing in competitiveness but they are not all experiencing an increase in wealth because there is no increase in employment and there are still differences in employment opportunities between regions.
I thought I had answered your question on large-scale energy transmission networks.
Once they have done so, we shall adopt a position on the matter.
The EQUAL initiative has a specific mission. To encourage, to assist promotion, to create statistics, to create studies and agencies to support those sections of the population which suffer discrimination.
Mr President, you will understand that we cannot assent to the present resolution as it stands.
What options does the Commission have, to offer effective help fast?
I think it is a good thing that this directive does not need to apply to historic vehicles, and I think we ought to add this provision to it.
We must not fear globalisation, but we must also make sure that we understand its political impact in the network society.
We negotiated the seed marketing legislation for two years.
This has been talked about for years.
Moreover, I shall only highlight the most important ones.
Over 80 measures are envisaged.
We think that the task we now have of establishing a European agency is crucial in order to give credibility to the single market, to stabilise confidence in this market, to break down some of the tensions between Member States in this area and even - it has to be said - to give the European Union a common approach for its dealings with third countries in areas of food safety.
What does it mean and what does Europe give us over and above the parameters of our national boundaries?
The Council and Parliament must work together to provide the resources that the Commission needs.
We do drink port wine, and we do like German beer, and we even use Finnish saunas, but it is not from Europe that culture is under threat.
This process may take a long time but it is unstoppable and, what is more, desirable.
Women are not a minority and often suffer double discrimination as members of minority groups as well as because of their gender.
I think there is an umbilical cord between neglecting human rights, between neglecting habeas corpus, between neglecting all the usual rules of good governance, between tyranny and between environmental degradation.
In so doing, we would not only embarrass the United States into shouldering its responsibilities in relation to UN funding, but we would also demonstrate that our commitment to defending human rights is more than simply empty rhetoric.
The key political divide has been very obviously stated this evening, and it is no surprise that this issue has polarised the debate in a House which is known for its consensus and its carve-out politics, and I am delighted to see this difference of opinion made so clear, because this report is a radical one.
It is based on three strands. strand A organises cross-border cooperation between regional and local authorities in border regions, at both internal and external borders of the European Union, on the basis of joint cross-border development strategies which Member States' local and regional authorities are responsible for implementing. strand B governs transnational cooperation between national, regional and local authorities in various Member States or applicant countries regarding regional development, transport networks and the environment.
In 1998, the largest case concerned the supply of company capital totalling EUR 540 million to the PREUSSAG in Germany.
That is the purpose of all this, and it is therefore also important that you should cooperate with Mr Patten, for it is military, economic and diplomatic pressure which together will put a stop to atrocities in neighbouring countries.
Therefore we want applications for the service provision card to be for one or more Member States.
The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions:
If your ruling is that I cannot give an explanation of vote, I accept that but with reservations.
Will current programmes continue to be implemented?
The need was demonstrated recently by the statement from the British Government that it is 'minded to grant' an export credit licence to a company involved in the construction of the Ilisu Dam in Turkey.
It also has the opportunity and the desire to promote the whole raft of measures which may be presented, specifically by non-governmental organisations, but also through the intergovernmental collaboration which is traditional in these matters.
The starting point for the Commission' s communication is the implementation of EMU which, with its demand for stability and growth, creates the basis for the Member States' being able to maintain their social security arrangements.
We must therefore ensure that the EU provides every possible resource so that the economy of the south can prosper and enable a society to develop with more tolerance and respect for one another. This has not been achieved with the solutions proposed to date which have quite simply been based on looking the other way.
It is our duty to ensure from the very start that the present directive provides the right incentives and the proper driving force for a pricing system and an efficient structure of charges which will improve our environment in a cost-effective way.
In that way, we can act as a model for the applicant States.
These events could be prevented with more care and control by the public authorities.
That is not the intention and that is an important point that we need to bear in mind here.
I would therefore strongly advocate internal reform which delivers fast and concrete results at a social level. This gives the citizen a sense of recognition, here in Europe and elsewhere.
We also welcome Amendment No 13 insofar as, as a result of this, the card' s area of applicability is extended from one Member State to all Member States.
Mr President, a year has not yet passed, but it is already clear that Parliament is going to evaluate the first and second reports differently.
Mr President, being the last to speak gives me the privilege, Commissioner, of telling you that the majority of this House supports your initiative and has expressed a total, and, I believe, justified, confidence in you at the helm of this boat. But we all want to be oarsmen on it.
She will want to keep Parliament closely in touch with the action she proposes as a result of her visit.
We of course look forward most keenly to continuing this task with you.
The necessary and valuable spirit of initiative must be offset by a sense of responsibility towards society.
I would quote Gaza as an example.
At the moment, the question of congestion of air and roads is the fundamental problem.
There are many interesting questions relating to it, the monitoring centre, the principle of concentration etc. However, I would like to concentrate on the management bodies.
Delays in the CEN' s work are now making it difficult to apply this very directive.
Mr President, firstly I would like to express my very sincere thanks, not only for the initiatives of the different groups, of Mrs Grossetête and the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats, but also for the initiatives of Mr Wurtz and the Confederal Group of the United Left/Nordic Green Left, who proposed this debate, which has led to a positive and important discussion.
Could the Commission look at this particular situation in relation to the agreement that was signed with the UK Government?
Madam President, we cannot just keep repeating the number which several previous speakers have quoted; we must also mention the fact, Commissioner, that 80% of these huge, daily foreign exchange sales have an investment term of no more than eight days.
I should just like to deal with some of the specific issues that were raised during the debate.
We must begin by writing off debts. We must follow up words with action.
In my own country, Sweden, the objective, and the commitment towards playing our part, is to supply 2 500 men for EU operations.
Austria is a cosmopolitan country and xenophobia and discrimination have no place there.
We hope that the presentation of the proposal will take into account the fact that this fishing system is vitally important for the economy of huge Italian coastal areas and that the scientific data hitherto collected demonstrate that, from the point of view of biological implications, resources are, to some extent, sustainable.
I see that Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso is asking to take the floor on the same subject.
As you can see, our Macedonian friends have always played a very positive role and it is for this reason that it should be pointed out at this stage that Macedonia is not just a pawn in our so-called strive towards stability, but actually took the initiative.
The precautionary principle must therefore apply in the absence of scientific certainty.
No political cohesion has so far come about, not even in the fight against organised crime, or in defence of the victims of genocide; we do not have a currency that is even remotely stable or an economy which really does combat unemployment and poverty; but it only took one minute of iconoclastic fury to destroy the Union' s credibility.
We have to hope that at the forthcoming IGC we will also end up with qualified majority decisions in the area of culture.
(FR) Mrs Thyssen also referred to the matter of legal privilege for company lawyers.
The legal proceedings against the journalists fly in the face of every legal principle.
This comprehensive document takes account of a wide range of possible risks and recommends action to combat them in areas such as site-to-site transmission, security measures to curtail escapes, treatment of waste and effluent, methods of detection and diagnosis, farrowing and rotation, disinfection of equipment and many, many more.
Not only the difference in income per capita but, above all, large disparities in employment continue to give cause for concern.
It is expressed again in the unbelievable excess perpetrated by the European Parliament which today in its vote on a resolution wished to cancel out the result of the free elections in Austria.
(Applause)
The other concerns the collective investment undertakings.
The process of increasing safety margins and safety guarantees in transport is a process which must be improved day by day.
In conclusion, I hope that the message that we give tomorrow will be strong and wide-ranging for once, so that thanks also to the efforts of the Portuguese Presidency, this agenda will be revised.
Does the presidency intend to do anything about this?
Mr President, Commissioner, the Erika sank near my home and is still there, with 20 000 tonnes in its hold, the fate of which we are waiting to discover.
I would urge both the Member States and the Commission to give sufficient consideration to the huge disparities in wealth which continue to exist between the different regions in Europe.
The only way of stopping the diabolical machine which produces capital gains on the one side and unemployment on the other is to ban redundancies in all large companies which are in profit, on pain of compulsory purchase, and to publish the accounts of large companies and subject them to the scrutiny of the workers and the general public.
It is a programme based on real-life situations and issues, and it is therefore right to put concrete measures aside for the moment and focus on the major issues.
This immediate need will subsequently be replaced by a requirement for medicine to prevent epidemics, which have apparently already broken out, and aid for reconstruction.
I mention this last issue because it is the solution we should be embracing as quickly as possible if peace is to have any chance at all.
Mr President, the European Union' s competition policy has been of central importance since European integration began.
Recently, I have noticed that the Commission has been working hard to ensure that this principal is respected in a proper and effective manner, precisely in order to safeguard market flexibility, both for products and for services.
The Commission' s proposal introduces a clear procedure for selecting substances, and so no definition is needed.
Amendment No 44 cannot be accepted because, if it is prescribed that non-harmonised funds are subject to rules which have been 'imposed by the directive' concerning lending, borrowing, selling from an uncovered position and the third party custodian, this will indeed lead to a situation where very few funds, for example Swiss funds, would be eligible for investment.
With regard to governance in general, I believe it might be worth thinking in theoretical terms.
The protection of ethnic minorities and of minorities that speak a specific language is an element of the programme and of the two directives that the Commission has put before the Council.
That is a fact of life.
Mr President, the European Union environmental programme, to which a considerable amount (EUR 613 million) has been allocated, gives rise to many questions regarding the proper use of public funds.
The first one concerns the timescale of these important reforms.
We welcome the efforts of Mr Prodi to improve the public image of the Commission and the need for the latter to agree with this House and the Council.
Encouraging Turkish intransigence certainly does not help to bring the two communities closer together in the intimate talks under the aegis of the UN Secretary General.
The next five years of the Prodi Commission - as you solemnly announce in the first of your conclusions - will mean great change.
The European Social Fund contribution for the period 2000-2006 will total 2 487 billion euro. As the EQUAL initiative is a joint funding venture with the Member States, what will Greece's contribution amount to?
I should just like to recall that, during the lengthy process of approving the present Commission, every Commissioner was questioned by the Women' s Committee on how they would tackle the issue of equality within their own particular field.
She has also breached Rule 122 that gives the right to all the Members of this House to make observations, observations which in this case refute the remarks made by another deputy, Mr Vidal-Quadras.
One of the main demands of the demonstrators in Seattle was, rightly, the establishment of this type of tax, and this is not by chance.
The common position is also no great shakes from an environmental viewpoint.
It is thanks, too, to Parliament' s action, preferring a number of small-scale measures to be carried out close to the citizens' cultural roots rather than vast measures on a spectacular scale.
If the Council had worked as quickly as Mr Brok then we would certainly be a great deal further on.
In the authorities of the French departments, the leading French party is that of independent elected representatives, in right-wing or left-wing categories.
I would have liked to hear your discussion with the Austrian President, Mr Poettering. We are well aware that he is very embarrassed today at the dirty deal that government has done in forming such an alliance.
In the future, we must also develop indicators so that measures can be targeted at the right time at the right place.
At the same time, we welcome the continued dialogue between the two parties.
Tomorrow, the Commission is to decide on the matter for four more countries and very soon, I hope, it will be Italy' s turn.
Under Article 88, the Commission is obliged to supervise state aid.
We support the Schmidt report on proposal No 1, but we regret the fact that the directive sets a lot of quantity limits that restrict the ability to spread risks.
Will the Commission look at using its information budget to ensure people are engaged in this debate?
As for the time scale demanded for the directive' s implementation, it must be borne in mind that there are countries where creating the infrastructure for this directive' s implementation will take time and considerable resources.
This is not covered by the directive.
Nobody doubts that water is a resource of interest to all of us.
Finally, I would like to thank Parliament for the very constructive debate on the key aspects of these proposals and, in particular, of course, the rapporteur, Mrs Berger.
That is why I am voting in favour of the amendments tabled by the rapporteur.
That is why my Group moves that this item be taken off the agenda.
I believe that the European Union must do likewise.
The opening of a building which was not finished, in the middle of an election campaign, which eight months after the opening can still not be occupied, makes the Spanish Government look ridiculous.
I have, however, no sympathy for Mrs Lucas trying to hide behind her Parliamentary immunity.
This proactive approach should become the hallmark of the authority.
Thank you very much Commissioner Verheugen.
We need to know just how desirable and feasible a tax on short-term transactions really is.
My question therefore is this: will the Commission make this one of the conditions in order to improve future discussions?
Attempts to micro-manage the Commission' s operations are clearly in no one' s interest.
I would also like to know whether, in this context, it would not be possible to do something to induce the Iraqi Government to take a humanitarian step and to release some information regarding the 615 missing Kuwaitis, or to set them free if this is within their power.
It is disgraceful the way in which the German Presidency handled this matter.
I also support the demand for a suitable contribution from each sector to cover own costs.
No single methodology for accessing the cost and financing of the universal service is accepted by all the parties.
The minimum requirements for this would be for a proper study to be carried out at long last, not only by the Commission, but by reputable economic institutes throughout Europe.
This is not an expansionist policy in the sense of growth for growth' s sake.
Madam President, on a point of order.
The delta of the Danube is in danger.
Since France laid a huge amount of emphasis on legal exemption at the time, it was damaged by concessions in agricultural policy.
The resolution stipulates possible diplomatic means to isolate the new government politically without even mentioning the root causes of the resurgence of Fascism.
This is an issue that has been looked at on at least two separate occasions by the European Court of Justice, which has laid down the legal criteria for situations such as this where the appropriate legal base has to be properly taken into account when putting forward legislation.
I believe that it is well worth insisting that we wish to participate more with regard to the Court of Justice, even in the appointment of judges.
It was raised quite recently in the Environment Council by a number of ministers who want the Commission to look at what basis there might be for a ban and at what might need to be done.
We need a civilian task force in Kosovo now to monitor what is happening, and to tell the military and the police what they must do, otherwise everything we did in Bosnia and everything we did in Kosovo will be negated by the reality of a country that is sinking deeper and deeper into violence.
And this is happening in a country which, because it is one of the poorest in the world, does not have the minimal essential resources to help those affected as quickly as necessary.
We, as the Committee on Transport, are prepared to discuss the Commission communication on the question of safety at sea and, of course, we are likewise prepared to discuss, at a later date, the legal implications of this communication.
What we have seen is that war affects the environment in the long term and is dangerous.
Over the years, a consumer may have altered the product in a number of ways.
I consider the casting of Jörg Haider as "Europe's scapegoat" (or even worse, neo-Nazi and Super Racist) to be counterproductive.
This is, of course, because it is a waste of resources for us not to ensure that materials in cars are recycled.
That foundation is clearly the single market.
The same applies to European air traffic control.
This is also reflected in many of Parliament' s amendments.
Nonetheless the Commission has provided a service and I pay tribute to Commissioner Barnier who is here with us today for doing that.
As another Member said, we must have a general debate on Angola and not just on the situation of certain journalists suffering repression in this country.
When we are compelled literally to humiliate theatre groups, young musicians, pioneering activities in the arts, writers, to humiliate them and send them packing with a slap on the back and thirty rejection slips in such a way that they begin to perceive Europe as something foreign, something opposed, contrary and hostile to any effort towards cultural creativity - an area in which the European Union should make its presence felt because our mission is not just the euro, not just enlargement, nor geostrategic expedients, but also to encourage culture to flower in this affair of European Unification - then this is indeed a sorry way to end.
They call for the areas eligible for cross-border cooperation to be extended to all regions of the Adriatic, as well as to the Sicilian provinces which have a frontier with Malta - an applicant country - which, inexplicably, are not currently included in strand A, Annex 1.
This proposal is still being discussed by the Council and Parliament on the basis of the codecision procedure.
Indeed, it is good to note that the forecast of 3% growth for the year 2000, which could have seemed rather bold when the Commission announced it in November 1999, now has a serious chance of being achieved, even in the context of continued inflation, since the peak of 2% for the euro zone in January, nevertheless remains quite minor compared with the past.
There are some details to be finalised but most of the technical issues have been resolved.
From that standpoint, it is useful that the Commission' s work programme comes back to the issues of Agenda 2000, the common agricultural policy, which includes fishing, and secondly, the activities of the structural funds.
It is the posts which should possibly be made permanent and not necessarily those employed on a temporary basis.
That is why we must define certain minimum standards here too and realise that it is important to provide the necessary services for the people.
A5-0037/2000 by Mrs Attwooll, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council decision on a financial contribution from the Community towards the expenditure incurred by the Member States in collecting data, and for financing studies and pilot projects for carrying out the common fisheries policy (COM(1999) 551 - C5-0303/1999 - 1999/0224(CNS)).
Apart from Amendment No 76, which was an error, since I intended to vote in favour, the rest of my votes can be explained by means of the following fictional situation:
Mr President, public institutions must not accept only the economic criterion.
The Euro, employment, even security, are not enough.
Mr President, thank you very much for the opportunity you are giving me to go into the different amendments in more detail.
I also want to add that, when it comes to groundwater and to water which has been heavily modified by human activities, I support a tighter timetable and a clarification of goals and of criteria for allowing exceptions to the rules. I also support expressly mentioning radioactive substances.
It has thereby succeeded in closing two serious loopholes in the internal market which are of great significance to the European economy and to 5 million third-country nationals in the European Union who are here as workers or on a self-employed basis.
The mission of reconnecting with the European public is critical as Mrs Morgan says and that can only be done on the basis of action not words.
We have to remedy that.
However, some people in our political group think otherwise.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Patten, I should like to thank you for your statements, especially Commissioner Patten, whose analysis I fully share and I shall not, therefore, repeat any of his ideas.
That did not happen.
For these reasons the CSU European delegates are against this resolution.
As Commissioner Vitorino will have noted in all the various speeches, the need has emerged to draw up a framework of common rules, which is to say that we cannot continue in this manner, with this disparate agenda, with these piecemeal agreements which relate to diverse sectors such as that of investigation.
We all have a duty to put our own house in order.
Since the end of the cold war, compliance with human rights has also become a condition for international cooperation.
I will give an example: a fungicide has been proven to cause babies to be born blind. It is therefore a teratogenic substance.
The widely quoted Article 7 of the Treaty, which provides for the repeal of membership rights from a Member State where serious and continuous violations against human rights have been established, is, of course, only a kill or cure remedy, an ultimum remedium, which, in the case of Austria, can only be quoted in the absence of anything more effective, and by way of warning.
The whinging about competitive disadvantages is laughable if it only concerns competitive disadvantages sustained by the German car industry.
Bearing this in mind, I can agree to accept Amendment Nos 7 and 8 with a minor change to the latter.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, economic clout cannot be the only factor that determines the European Union' s status in the world.
Mr President, I would very briefly like to give an explanation of vote, on behalf of the PPE Group on the EQUAL report.
The Security Council feels that the solution to the Cypriot problem should be sought within the framework of a two-zone, twin-community federation, in other words a single state, as Mr Verheugen mentioned, consisting of two local administrations elected by the two communities.
With regard to what you were saying, it makes me think that the criticism levelled at the Council, apart from being formulated in a very specific way of which we also take note, does not actually refer to the opacity, shall we say, of the legislative process, but rather almost to an excess of transparency.
In relation to legal certainty, I endorse the point made by Mrs Thyssen.
A six-year period is programmed for these negotiations.
Let us not forget that, in the most remote regions, tourism is the most important industry in terms of income.
Mr President, I should like make a comment in connection with a meeting held last night by various Members of Parliament from all groups.
It was agreed that the SCRS should present a study at the 1998 meeting. It was intended that this meeting be presented with various possible recovery options with a view to maximising sustainable yields by taking into account alternatives or possible levels of recruitment and mixing of stocks.
Today' s debate makes it quite clear that Parliament wants more emphasis on speed, not speed at the expense of quality, but then slowness alone does not mean quality either.
The other thing we should remember is that we did have a budget line in the past.
I would merely ask when this is likely to take effect.
Mr President, I am pleased to see the convergence of viewpoints there is between Parliament, particularly the Committee on Budgets, and the Commission, and we can assure you that, for our part, we shall always be there to assist the Commission in the performance of its duties.
I think that the answer is brief and clear.
Sanctions can be imposed after the Treaties have been violated, but cannot be applied if a democratically elected party enters government.
If we consider the fact that more than half the population is made up of women but that that there are many more men than women present in these decision-making bodies, it is clear that we are still far from true democracy.
As an overall comment to the suggested amendments here, particularly in relation to the legal base issue, it would be inappropriate, in my opinion, to change the legal base to Article 152 in these circumstances, as it would be very likely to fall foul of the objective criteria that have been laid down by the Court.
It must become more flexible and more responsible to labour market conditions.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, during the Asian crisis in 1997, as with those which hit Mexico in 1995 or the EMS in 1993, everyone could see the damage caused to the economies of entire countries by financial speculation, particularly currency speculation.
Should we not make a point of cleaning up our own act and putting our own house in order before we plunge into constructing grand new institutions!
Take, for example, the pledges made by the Commission. They look good in themselves.
80% of the 13.9 million AIDS related deaths in the world have taken place in this region.
It is true, Commissioner, that the Commission is not a machine for manufacturing legal certainty.
The European Union did that at the European Union­China Summit in Peking last month where we pressed the Chinese on a number of human rights issues, including Tibet.
I am therefore in complete agreement with the Commission' s proposal on scrapie.
The creation of organisations similar to the LAGs may be usefully encouraged by the European Union, provided that the corresponding costs are borne by the various partners.
Madam President, my habit is always to be here for the opening of the part-session on Monday afternoons at 5.00 p.m.
For this reason we very much welcome programmes of this kind.
The involvement of regional and local authorities in the Community' s action is, as you know, one of the essential elements of the new post-Berlin Structural Funds Regulation.
Furthermore, like the rapporteur, I think that studies must be undertaken to analyse the reasons for the gap between the number of women with science degrees and the number of women who manage to have a career in these fields.
I also abstained for another reason. I think the time has come for the European institutions to stop experimenting and trying to establish best practices for doing what we should do and begin to give European citizens some firm indication regarding what Europe wants Europe to be.
Secondly, for economic and monetary union.
Commissioner Monti and his colleagues have a tremendous challenge ahead of them and our worries in the ELDR Group are that there should be no weakening in the thrust of competition policy either in the examination of mergers or the monitoring of restrictive practices.
My contacts with large European and multinational companies in Europe have brought tragic results to light.
We are pleased about this and we congratulate the Council on these decisions, despite the fact that, for this House, the Treaty of Amsterdam included one disappointment: that of delaying, for five years, our role, our ability to participate actively, to democratically control this area of freedom, security and justice, as well as the role taken in it by the Court of Justice.
I have been here for 20 years and found absolute trust between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
The rapporteur observes that stability is not an end in itself, which is something I agree with.
I cannot do other than work with the Greek Government.
This is a political question which, in the short term, requires an answer from the IGC and this Parliament.
By way of clarification: if we transfer it across from heading 4 to heading 7 then this will have no effect on the overall balance of the budget.
EQUAL is a very difficult programme because it attempts to combine so many old programmes and yet aims to view them in a different light, doing so with less money than was available in the previous funds.
Such a commitment entails an in-depth reform of procedures and implementation modalities on both sides.
Today, we have been called on to choose, for the forthcoming decades, between a Europe that might be less prosperous but a beacon of peace and civilisation for the whole planet and a Europe that might be more wealthy, but where there is uncertainty over what the future might bring.
Mr President, it is essential for there to be effective protection under criminal law of the financial interests of the European Union, more so these days than there used to be.
I am advised that ISA is considered non-pathogenic for humans and mammals.
In that spirit, we support Amendment No 107 by Mr Marset Campos.
Madam President, I want to express my concern that this clear defence by Mr Knörr Borràs of human rights apparently does not prevent his government from cooperating in Parliament with a political group which not only does not condemn, but collaborates with and encourages, violence against people and property.
Mr President, I will try to be brief in answering the Member' s question. The regional development plan submitted by the Spanish authorities on 29 October does not indicate how the Community funds will be allocated among the Spanish Objective 1 regions and therefore what your region of Andalusia will receive.
The position is clear and we must now hope that the improved climate surrounding relations between the European Union and Turkey and between Greece and Turkey will bear favourably on the Turkish Cypriot community and that it will withdraw its refusal to send representatives to the accession negotiations.
Fourthly, we should like exemptions from the rules on water status to be kept to a minimum and clearly defined.
In the fifth place, we need there to be a guarantee that these demands will apply to all ships using the ports and waterways of the European Union, and incidentally, that includes the candidate countries.
Financial control' s ex ante visa for each spending department will only be relinquished as and when the internal control system in a department is shown to be fully adequate.
I should like to make just a few comments.
There has been no appropriate assessment of the importance of the global grant instrument, which could prove to be extremely useful in redressing the balance between urban and rural zones and, moreover, would accord proper status to local bodies which, being independent, could bring about the conditions for territorial development more quickly, and make a practical contribution to the efforts to reform the Structural Funds and to achieve the objectives of efficiency, concentration and administrative reform.
So I will make brief mention of the package against discrimination and take this opportunity to ask the competent parliamentary committees to appoint their rapporteurs so that we can move ahead with the anti-discrimination package as soon as possible.
To me, this Commission strategy paper for the next five years reads like a scientific paper on the European Union or a declaration of principle.
I am in suspense as to how the discussions, which were broadly based, will be incorporated in the first legislative proposal.
Secondly, to what extent do you support the comments and statements made by the French Defence Minister that the Member States had to allocate 0.7% of GDP to defence expenditure?
This state of deadlock, which threatens to undermine the credibility of the Union, has inspired Parliament to initiate the setting-up of a European Public Prosecutor' s Office.
I believe that the importance that everyone has attached to the European Union' s role in international development policies is significant.
Such a split would only delight the despots and rogue States which threaten freedom and human rights.
Could you please give an answer on this issue?
Globalisation gives us the chance to shape the world, which is becoming smaller and smaller, as a world of peaceful competition and solidarity.
If that is felt in a Directorate-General to be a relevant and effective way of enhancing financial control, the ex ante system can be used.
Furthermore, as you know, the European Union makes a contribution to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees, which came to EUR 66.3 million in 1999.
In my own country, mythology tells of the teeming hordes of faceless Brussels bureaucrats but it never mentions the number of European judges.
Mr President, I would like to stress that, in an age of significant technological changes - just look at what is happening in the information technology sector and other sectors such as energy and transport - safeguarding competition will be of fundamental importance for our future.
It is a sad fact that there are many hundreds, if not thousands, of communities in the European Union suffering very severe poverty and disadvantage.
I am referring to the future constitutional state of Kosovo, the need to involve Serbia in the region' s reconciliation process and - why not? - new discussions on relations between the European Union, NATO and the UN, in the light of the new balance that needs to be found between humanitarian intervention and state sovereignty, which I think calls for a change in the existing UN Charter.
The European Union will continue discussions on preparations for the 56th session of the Human Rights Commission at the next meeting of the Human Rights Group in March.
It is time to end the era which began with the Balfour declaration in 1917 and the Arab-Israeli war of 1948. It is time there were secure borders and political, social and economic rights in every country in this region, and that human rights were recognised and upheld in Syria, Palestine, Israel and everywhere else.
A second observation, the time limits for the submission of programmes and the possibility of submitting a planning supplement in addition to the programmes.
In spite of the fact that, both in the Treaty and at the UN' s meetings in Rio and Copenhagen, there was an undertaking to work to eradicate poverty in the world, the budget for development aid is, in actual fact, being cut back, when the express desire was that exactly the opposite should happen.
And insofar as such studies already exist, to publish more openly its own comments with regard to the objectives of the Treaties, which are not only to ensure the competitivity of the European economy, but also sustainable development and economic and social cohesion.
I hope that honourable Members will excuse me if I am not able to stay to the end of the debate as I would, in all normal circumstances, wish to do.
Michel Camdessus, a fair man who is still director of the International Monetary Fund, said in his speech at the opening of the UNCTAD conference, and I am now quoting, that the international community gives with one hand and takes away with the other. He was of course talking about the aid granted by developed countries to less developed countries.
We have been willing to relinquish the provisions in that.
(The Minutes were approved)
As many of the speakers have said, I believe a first important step has been taken.
With regard to the parliamentary procedure, I would like once again to thank all of those who have acted and spoken, especially the rapporteur, because the majority of Parliament' s amendments have been incorporated into the proposal accepted by the Council, in this case practically all of them, although with some modifications. I would also like to express my gratitude because an improvement on the initial offer of funds has been achieved.
Perhaps there was a certain amount of residual misunderstanding on the part of the Commission.
The labour market is also changing.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
That needs to be addressed.
Our relations with third countries represent another important aspect of the fight against organised crime.
Regrettably, although ISA was first detected in Scotland only two years ago, it has now spread to 29 farms directly and around 240 other farms are affected in some way or another.
And there will not be less funds available than in the current period either; there will be more.
It is Europe's duty to support them and thereby complement the efforts of the governments of Member States affected by the disaster.
The environmental problems stemming from the incineration and the dumping of such waste are mainly attributable to the presence of hazardous substances (lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chrome, PVC and halogenated flame retarders).
We warn that this coalition, if it is formed today, unacceptably legitimises the extreme right, directly in contradiction with the principles of peace and reconciliation, which bring us together in this European Union.
This is all the more serious, if that is possible - as others have said - bearing in mind that your Commission, Mr Prodi, has to carry out nothing less than a revision or reform of the current common fisheries policy, which you are legally required to do in 2002.
You told us that RINA was an Italian classification register recognised by the Commission.
It acknowledges the fact that Turkey has signed and ratified the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and has subsequently concluded a comprehensive safeguards agreement with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
I would like to make a number of comments about what has been said.
The regulation of investments in transferable securities, the vast majority of which are made by elderly pensioners, is thus a major step forward for the European Union.
As this is the first Valentine' s Day of the new millennium I hope that you will agree with me that it would be fitting for this House to mark this day by making a firm commitment to tackling heart disease, the biggest killer in the European Union.
We concluded that it is not, but given the importance of the issue we nonetheless agreed to accept this procedure.
As from 2006, therefore, all vehicles should be handed in at no cost to their last owners.
The next item is the recommendation (A5-0008/2000) by Mrs Cederschiöld, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the proposal for a Council Decision on the approval, on behalf of the European Community, of the WIPO Copyright Treaty and the WIPO Performances and Phonograms Treaty [COM(1998) 249 - C5-0222/1999 - 1998/0141 (AVC)].
Second reading of the Florenz report (A5-0006/2000)
All the countries in the Mediterranean area must acknowledge human dignity, democracy and the rule of law.
The Council, Commission and Parliament are all agreed on the content but there is disagreement on the transitional period for implementing the directive.
I ask Mr Nielson, in his summing-up, to directly address those points in the resolution.
The position that has now been adopted aims to create more rapid ways of applying competition policy, moving towards applying Community law in national courts rather than at the European Court of Justice, and even aims at having specialised courts.
I can tell you, Mr Davies, that the Bureau has adopted the principle of publishing the Members' register of financial interests on the Internet and the Quaestors are studying in great detail the problems and the legal questions that it may involve.
I would also mention the right to develop. It is the right of all peoples who, in turn, are the sum of countless individuals each one of whom has the right to develop and to a future that, most importantly, is full of hope and personal growth, within each individual society.
Let me name just two small ones: the rapid resolution of the problem of the frontier crossing with Kosovo in Blace and the creation of Corridor 8, from Albania via Macedonia to Bulgaria.
We cannot continue with a situation where incompetence, mismanagement and fraud are costing the European taxpayers money and providing them with a poor service.
One of the biggest challenges that may come from the essential efforts to match the tasks of the Commission with the resources of the Commission will confront this House.
Any change to the current situation must be preceded by a rigorous study of its various implications, with the objective always being to guarantee a high-quality public service and to retain the current public operators and existing jobs.
Let me point out that Parliament is asking for 850 million ecus in appropriations, not a vast sum in the Community budget, and that the current proposals are for 613 million ecus.
I would like an answer as to whether or not the Portuguese Presidency intends to do something about these matters.
There is indeed economic recovery, but it only marginally reduces unemployment in Europe.
We shall have to be very vigilant on what used to be covered by that agreement and is not fully covered by the new decision.
We also need stricter criteria for interpreting the results of any monitoring.
Do you not think that it would be beneficial to lift the embargo on Serbia in order to normalise the area economically and also to benefit Kosovo as a province of Serbia?
Before the final vote:
A final amendment is intended to ensure that tanks and tankers put into service between 1 January 1997 and the entry into force of this directive may continue to be used provided that they have been constructed and maintained in accordance with it.
Secondly, I was rapporteur for civil protection in Europe and I completely agree with the Commissioner' s proposal to create a European civil protection body.
I think such projects ought to be eligible for funding, because, at the end of the day, that restoration may well prove to be a first-rate development policy.
On Third Pillar matters such as these conventions which are so important for the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice, it is unacceptable for the Presidency-in-Office of the Council to be absent.
Instead, we have been forced to debate the formal, substantial errors that have been made in the last few days.
I honestly believe that an evaluation of this type would not be in accordance with the reality of that situation.
I consider it to be a breakthrough that we succeeded in concluding this protocol.
I will verify this point and, if you wish, I will give you a written answer at the same time as the one I have promised to Mr MacCormick.
We are working in this direction with the Commission and Commissioner Patten.
In this respect, the chapter of the White Paper on food safety which deals with feedingstuffs must serve as a working basis for going beyond mere commercial questions.
Amongst the statistics there is a worrying upward trend in the time taken to deal with preliminary references.
However, the Council then took another direction at the very next summit in December and took a huge step backwards by deciding what we had absolutely rejected, i.e. that the Council should continue to be responsible for implementation, that the regulatory committee would be attached to the Council and that, where possible, Gibraltar would still be used to exert pressure.
So why should EU arms producers profit at the expense of innocent people?
We contacted the Romanian Government and the International Commission for the Protection of the Danube River about the accident earlier this month to seek more information urgently.
Yet, the sum of EUR 378 million you mentioned had been given in 1999, was proved by the facts to be quite insufficient to create even rudimentary civilised conditions in Kosovo, especially where the provision of health services is concerned.
This determination to override nations with a legally supranational text is also expressed in the first meetings of the body responsible for drawing up the so-called Charter of Fundamental Rights, which is really a closet constitution.
Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, and I hope that, with the final decision of the Council, we can release these funds and make a positive contribution to maintaining the considerable effort being made in Kosovo by different parties, so that we might achieve that situation of greater coexistence and peace which we all wish to see.
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
We need to ensure that strategies for promoting regional integration within the ACP are pursued in their own right.
What are the respective roles of alcohol policy and public health considerations in the Commission's work?
This will enable the Community to substantially increase annual flows of commitments and payments during this period.
Now, in my opinion, given that this is such a serious risk to health, the precautionary principle lays down that this product should immediately be taken off the market, which New Zealand has done, for example.
Most say it is about time.
The mudflat at Stregrennan, which was made a special protection area at the request of the Commission, has been completely destroyed at this stage.
So we come back to the previous problem.
This too is unacceptable in my view.
A Europe-wide policy on alcohol is not just an issue concerning the internal market. It also has important implications for public health.
This should be done at Member State level and should lead to the formulation of sector policies for Community action.
The general agreement between both institutions in this field must not keep the Commission from following the most pragmatic approach in achieving our common objectives.
As indicated by the rapporteur, the effects of the structural measures, on the other hand, are minimal as far as employment is concerned.
And finally, in the crucial area of financial management where the Court of Auditors, the Committee of Independent Experts and other external and internal analyses have strongly advised radical change, the support of this House in implementing the recommendations for full security of money and value for money will be of prime importance.
The first and substantive prerequisite for achieving that reform is the agenda based on which the Intergovernmental Conference is to begin its work.
It cannot be restricted to a small number of countries, with others only being allowed to observe or execute decisions" .
Parallel to this European strategy of social convergence, a concrete plan for legislative work in the social sphere is required, together with proposals for framework agreements in the context of the dialogue between employers and employees, accompanied by a concrete timetable.
This is proved by the fact that in the areas where those initiatives were implemented, farming incomes and employment decreased rapidly, which resulted in their depopulation.
Although, as you will have seen, the dreaded 'millennium bug' failed to materialise, still the people in a number of countries suffered a series of natural disasters that truly were dreadful.
. (DA) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have voted today in favour of the report by our Swedish Social Democratic colleague, Jan Andersson, on the Commission' s communication concerning a coordinated strategy for modernising social security.
First, and the Commissioner has also confirmed this, because it places a heavy burden on the capital markets.
We have accepted this but have proposed further approximations of the legal effect measures that affect this directive, in particular the adoption of a text - which has been approved by the Commission overall - for the use and labelling of genetically modified organisms.
Is that really authorised?
The examples are, I hope, all well known. In any case, they are known all too well to the producers in the ACP countries who are affected by these measures and who have to destroy their products because they cannot compete with EU-subsidised products.
Subject: Commission's plans for presentation of a new social action programme It is important that the Commission present as soon as possible a new social action programme, setting out a specific plan with a timetable for implementation for both the legislative work in the area of social security and initiatives for framework agreements in the context of the 'social dialogue'.
Is a monopoly flexible enough in a market where the customer' s requirements and the market situation can change very rapidly, because, for example, the use of electronic data carriers has increased dramatically?
When you observe - and you cannot fail to do so - the disparity in the legal systems and concepts, and the fact that we wish to improve coordination, I believe that there are three ways in which we can proceed.
I should now like to respond briefly to a few of the comments you have made, ladies and gentlemen, and firstly on procedure.
Secondly, on the question of ex ante and ex post auditing and procedures, do I understand correctly - and I have not had the opportunity to wade into the detail of the paper - that the unanimous decision of the Commission is indeed to empower the Directorates-General to liberate them from the ex ante visae system but to put in their place a strong ex post and independent and centralised audit system?
Thirdly we are carrying out education programmes on tolerance and respect.
I think that, under the present rules of the Treaties, the European Parliament would have little to gain from a policy of confrontation.
I look forward to the next round.
This model function also applies to regional cooperation.
In addition to making up the majority of the population, women are also the most dynamic element in society: it is women who have made the greatest contribution to the creation of new enterprises in Europe in recent years; a greater percentage of young women obtain irregular work contracts than men, and in many of our regions, they are the main feature of the innovation, training, performance and flexibility development model.
You know that you will always have our support here in Parliament, and that includes your proposal, and we shall be behind you when the time comes to finance it.
It was because of the discredited policies of his own Conservative Party.
But if this takes place in the course of renationalisation then what we will have here is a patchwork quilt of competition policy.
Secondly, we need to ensure that we legislate only when necessary - subsidiarity.
Parliament has proposed 4 years, the Commission 7 and the Council 13.
Mr President, Commissioner, this is one of the social areas to which the European Union ought to pay much more attention.
But the question is now: is the European Union doing anything about it as well?
Many thanks for this.
Mr President, the Commissioner said that Turkey has signed the non-proliferation treaty, it has signed the nuclear safety treaties: why should there be any doubt at all but that Turkey's nuclear plant should not be just as safe as any in the Community, and would the Commissioner be prepared to take a rather more robust position with Mr Souladakis on this matter?
Article 31 only envisages minimum common rules for criminal acts in certain cases, specifically restricted to organised crime, terrorism and drug trafficking.
The party led by François Mitterrand, decorated with the emblem of Marshal Pétain' s Vichy government, the party whose leading lights have just been caught red-handed once again, living a life of luxury on the public funds embezzled from the students' mutual insurance company.
The Commission is actively involved in those efforts.
To this end all regional aid is made conditional on the maintenance of the investment in question for a minimum period of five years.
Amendment No 7 calls on the Commission to report annually on the use it has made of the data collected under the regulation.
I have also heard Commissioner Barnier' s clarification of relations and links with the European Parliament during the implementation of this programme.
There are also those who argue that the Commission could effectively ignore the advice of the new authority.
I think this rather nicely puts the finishing touches to a debate which has, on the whole, been quite positive, and I would repeat my thanks to the rapporteur and to Parliament for the cooperation which has gone into our relations with the Third World on precisely the work in question.
There is the risk of creating a monopoly within the car dismantling trade.
Secondly, to define the criteria for the eligibility and allocation of LIFE funds, in order to rule our any suspicions of clientelism or ostracism.
I am glad to see that the Commission and Parliament are converging towards the same goal in this area.
This regulation and these standards have brought an increased volume of trade for the World Trade Organisation, in other words, increased wealth, but when we look at how this wealth is distributed, we see, unfortunately, that the gulf between the world' s richest countries and blocks and the poorest and least developed countries continues to increase.
Quite briefly, structural policy does not ease the problem of mass unemployment in any way, rather it aggravates it.
How accurate are the press reports which state that the Portuguese Presidency has already pledged troops as a peacekeeping force in the Golan?
We sincerely believe in the validity of cultural action, among other things in terms of making a contribution to the social, as well as economic, development of a people.
The Commission has resolutely forged a path, and I hope that all the institutions will follow it right to the very end, in the service of the citizens of Europe, to achieve an ever-stronger and ever more transparent Europe.
When social security has repeatedly, and in the words of many influential people, been characterised as a 'cost' and an 'obstacle' to greater competitiveness and when ways are being sought to transfer that cost from companies to working people - always, of course, on the pretext that this will create jobs - it would surprise us if the existing model of market economy without accountability, with its dismal monetary-economic approach to everything and total dependence on monopolistic interests, were to take under its protection the fundamental right of the citizens to social protection and care.
After all, the EU Member States are either full members of NATO or sit around the Euro Atlantic Partnership Council table.
a) Sittings from 14 to 18 February 2000 in Strasbourg Relating to Wednesday:
However, the reform of the European Commission must now be taken in the context of the debate that is going to take place in the run-up to the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference and the reform of various EU policies and initiatives.
Nevertheless, I must make it clear that all these actions will, of course, have to take into account the principles agreed at the Helsinki European Council concerning applicant countries, so that those applicants can cooperate and also be associated as quickly as possible with this project of creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
The Commission has proposed various amendments to this end, all of which aim to systematically restructure the Council proposal by suggesting a series of technical adjustments that will render the text harmonious and consistent as regards the amendments proposed.
Restrictions on fundamental rights cannot and must not be applied to the field of law unless they are justified in that they are associated with an actual or presumed violation of criminal law.
In this sense, all high seismic risk areas must be excluded a priori for nuclear installations such as this.
I pay special tribute to him for his success.
I do believe it is important to say that Andalusia is going to receive 50% more within the Community support framework and that Spain also holds the record for the use of the Structural Funds, which means that the distribution is based strictly on the implementing regulations and is decentralised by means of the regional development plans and different Community support frameworks.
The fact that it did not establish a genuine procedure, that it did not establish time limits, that it did not regulate access for interested parties to the files, or that the right to defence was not properly recognised, were factors which led to the unanimous demand for reform.
We discussed that matter and we were unanimous, with the exception of the PPE and ELDR Groups. As my fellow chairmen will recall, I even mentioned that it was not a matter of knowing whether one was for or against the Tobin tax, but of whether one dared to hear what the Commission and the Council thought of it.
It is a most important point and needs to be clarified, Mr President.
There is still more we have to do, and the Lisbon Summit will become part of that.
Mr President, I am also going to refer to the report by Mr Langen, which concerns aid to the steel industry.
In view of this unusual situation, will the Commission say why the OHIM has not yet moved to its new premises?
After all, we find ourselves in a situation of historic importance, that is to say, we are negotiating or are on the point of taking up negotiations with 12 States, and together we have reached a stage at which closer European integration may be a reality in the not too distant future.
The next item is the report (A5-0009/2000) by Mr Graça Moura, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a single financing and programming instrument for cultural cooperation ('Culture 2000') (C5-0327/1999 - 1998/0169(COD)).
This means that, when contemplating actions likely to lead to serious social consequences, job losses for example, companies should always actively search for and choose the least negative and least damaging solution.
Every year, nearly 200 million Europeans leave their homes for a short time in order to travel, usually to other countries in Europe.
That concludes the debate.
But this is not in place.
The thinning-out we need is not being attended to; the forests are not being tended to the requisite degree.
A free press and informed public opinion are the heart and soul of a democracy.
As Mr Karas just pointed out, a few weeks ago the Commission submitted a proposal for an information campaign on the euro, to which it proposed allocating as much as EUR 32 million.
We would particularly like to stress that there must be balanced representation between men and women in all of these bodies.
We must now get down to adopting measures, Commissioner.
I was in Mitrovica a couple of months ago, I saw the situation there for myself.
Nevertheless, rumour has it that it plans to buy Candu reactors of the type acquired by Pakistan and India which were used for nuclear weapons.
This is the reason why I feel that the European Parliament, which has more freedom of action and more freedom to speak than the Council or the Commission, must pay tribute to those people in the various States and European institutions who had the courage to say no, and it must say, Madam President, that you made a statement on our behalf which does us credit, and in clear terms declare, without prevarication, its opposition to and condemnation of imminent events in Austria, recalling the statement made on the day of the Munich Agreement by a great French Christian Democrat who said that, if you are going to have to say no, then the best time to do so is right at the beginning.
We should also remember that the use of renewable energy sources has a positive impact on regional development and employment.
In its resolution referring to specific atrocities committed against Serbs and Romanies, Parliament also vigorously condemns the continuing violence against the Serb population and calls on the leaders of the Kosovo Albanians to fully respect UN Resolution 1244.
But this leads to status-quo and self-deceit, and globalisation as a whole has so far only led to changes, indeed, but changes which have only made poverty worse.
This is the philosophy behind the initiative; the budget is commensurate with it and our aim is for development agencies, non-governmental organisations and local authorities to be involved as much as possible, so that it can get as close to the people as possible.
The question for the Commissioner is really whether these principles can actually be applied and whether we will get any money by way of compensation from these people.
Such a concern is misplaced.
I can perform this dual task.
Just when we thought the discussions had ended, a number of diverse amendments have been tabled in plenary which I ask you to vote against unreservedly.
Secondly, we have the issue of companies' legal certainty.
The Erika was built at a Japanese shipyard and is single-hulled.
Competition should bring about balance in supply and demand and should provide for the optimum distribution of economic resources and facts.
Finally, as has already been said, it is essential, and I hope that the IGC will cover this, to move to codecision with the European Parliament in these areas, with democratic and judicial scrutiny.
I think Mr Swoboda has drafted an excellent report, and it has my wholehearted support.
As long as the EU revolved around the internal market, only the body was being attacked. Now, it is the soul.
Furthermore, in this proposal there is no threshold for serious offences.
We are also envisaging the establishment of a European food authority by 2002 as an essential complement to the new food safety regime.
According to the list given in the final version of the agenda, there are already four items.
Whistle-blowers who act in good faith must be protected.
Are you prepared to act upon it?
Women in the decision-making process
The argument that Mr Poettering himself used has come into play, i.e. that it would only be possible to deprive Haider of his mystique if he were to be integrated into the political system.
The question is whether the Commission has reacted with sufficient alertness.
Even in this Chamber, the Council' s representative referred to the north of Cyprus and not to the occupied territories.
Overly strict, unrealistic environmental objectives will not be applied because they are unattainable.
I am thinking in particular of the pre-accession structural instrument, which I shall be responsible for implementing in the next few weeks.
An individual is required to be in authorised employment and to have the right of residence and insurance protection, not just at the time of issue of the card but throughout its period of validity and for three months thereafter.
We anticipate, if I understand correctly, a report in September on core activities.
This is what we wish to do: maintain our role as a supranational structure, maintain the role conferred on us by the Treaties, but also be unwavering on principles and make judgements based on facts.
The proposal for an amendment to this regulation on the application of the Protocol on the excessive deficit procedure, annexed to the Treaty of Maastricht, raises fundamental issues concerning the switch to the 1995 European system of accounts, which, as you know, replaced the previous System of Accounts adopted in 1979, and in particular the emergence of new financial product categories, consistency in the calculation of the ratios of government deficit to gross domestic product on the basis of ESA 95 and, finally, recognising the importance of calculating interest expenditure and the consistency of the latter with this new methodology.
In exchange, you might also have given up some of the upside of the markets.
Although the main achievements in the construction of an area of freedom, security and justice should be mentioned, we must remember that there is still room for progress.
The EU Commission cannot pay for everything.
Since we will be very pressed for time in the topical and urgent debate, in view of the many matters to be addressed in an hour and a half, I simply wanted to ask whether the sessional services might not check to see whether we could have an extra half an hour for the topical and urgent debate so that there is sufficient speaking time.
You say in your five-year programme that the people of the European Union rightly expect food standards to be higher and better foodstuffs legislation.
I do not believe that it is anybody' s intention to do so.
This is not your first visit to our Parliament, Mr President.
. (PT) The Portuguese Presidency is particularly interested in this issue, as I suppose that this is the first time a presidency has made resolving the problem of a Statute for Members of the European Parliament a priority in its programme.
The market favours the short term and immediate profits.
The whole purpose of this directive is to promote sustainable use of water in the EU.
But even in this crucial area of administration, Parliament reflects its commitment to subsidiarity by encouraging Member States to take on and to face up to their responsibility.
As an example of this I mention that public authorities, notably the Commission, have already taken measures through guidelines on national regional aid that came into force on 1 January this year so as to ensure that public funding remains associated with the recipients of regional aid and consequently with the jobs attached to the investment.
It is not only in the Member States that solutions to these problems are being sought. Last October in Turin, the countries in the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership bluntly demanded a Marshall plan for water for the south coast of the Mediterranean.
Madam President, Austria awaits a heavy responsibility.
Parliament must have more involvement and I also believe that if we were to introduce a register in which we could ascertain what state aid is being granted, then this would encourage the Member States to be more disciplined.
I have great expectations for the Portuguese Presidency.
From now on Europe must put its words into action if it wishes to show the world the scope of its rediscovered ambition.
The question is, furthermore, one of whether the two cases should be treated in the same way.
Mr President, I would thank the Council of Ministers for its answer. I want to ask two follow-up questions connected with the taxation of ourselves as parliamentarians.
Quite, I am well aware that their absence is highly irregular and I shall be most happy to pass this on.
This can only benefit our credibility.
I think that, at the moment, particularly in the last few months, there have been some positive developments in terms of the resources that will be available to Mr Kouchner, in order for him to be able to do his job efficiently.
This is why I would ask you to consider the English version as the original version.
The fourth group is legal certainty.
I thank him and I wish him a long and distinguished career as a representative.
I also hope that we produce some insight in this context and that we shall be able to compare which procedures are quickest and best in the various countries.
I wish we were closer to that.
The European economy will never achieve the level of competitiveness desired if we do not show we trust in the markets.
We would also like to stress that the main objective is the promotion of strategies for sustainable development, whose positive effects would extend to a broader geographical area than the local community itself, and we therefore feel it is appropriate for the projects to be integrated into the development programmes, included in Objectives 1 and 2, and into the regional planning of the regions and countries in which they are located.
The initiative adopts a completely new approach, which is to develop innovative employment models within transnational geographical or sectoral development partnerships.
I feel these derivatives will be an addition to the portfolio of unit trusts, which can only help individual people around Europe obtain a high return on their savings.
The next item is the report (A5-0020/2000) by Mrs Cederschiöld, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on a draft Framework Decision of the Council on increasing protection by penal sanctions against counterfeiting in connection with the introduction of the euro (5116/1999 - C5-0332/1999 - 1999/0821(CNS)).
Do you really believe that, if we could, Parliament would permit labelling to be left off feedingstuff additives within the European Union?
It is crucial we accept that there is a price to pay if women are to have equality in the short term.
I would also ask the Commission whether an analysis has been undertaken of the implications of this change for business: a cost-benefit analysis of the sort that is now becoming so much more European policy.
There is nothing unusual about what is happening in Austria: there has been a changeover of power following democratic elections, in consequence of which an old system was voted out and a stable parliamentary majority prepared to carry out the necessary economic and social reforms was sought and found.
I understand that Mrs Wallström, whose presence here tonight I appreciate, is going to visit the area.
I shall conclude with one aspect of the use of state aid which I feel is particularly dangerous: the matter of aid resulting in businesses relocating from one Member State to another, with the risk of subsidy hunting which makes no contribution to the shared objectives of the EU.
Supposed draft environmental directive: "European Parliament and Council Directive establishing the obligation to maintain, during winter, a temperature of no less than eighteen degrees centigrade in the streets, squares and parks of the cities of Europe ".
Fighting poverty and promoting sustained economic, cultural and social development are important objectives in the endeavour to build up democratic societies, based on respect for human rights, in the ACP states.
I will keep myself free in this connection.
However, that is precisely what is happening.
Of all priorities, this one is the most pressing.
We have a disproportionately large number of old people in these large cities, who are becoming increasingly lonely with the decline in the number of retail shops.
Our priority, as we wait for Community-level funds to be freed up, is for material aid in terms of partnership exchanges between Member States.
But what about the human rights policy within the EU itself?
Consequently, I too have to say that I am in favour of the amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
It is a misnomer to talk about a World Trade Organisation which does not include China - or Russia, for that matter.
The Commission can also accept Amendment No 4 in principle.
Districts and regional authorities consider this as their own money but they can only get their hands on this by investing vast amounts of money and manpower in lobbying and negotiating.
We are not at the moment ready to propose to stop the financing from the Structural Funds.
I am also keen to guard against an exponential growth in the number of special envoys, however worthy the cause.
But we have not heard a single word on this subject, and I find that deeply embarrassing.
In each of the three pillars of reform, the active support and cooperation of this House will be absolutely vital.
Like a previous speaker, I also fully support the appeals which have been made.
There is also a risk to the environment, because we know that there is an incubation period in salmon and that, consequently, if they are eaten, they can be carriers of this virus and present a risk.
The idea of a European Public Prosecutor on the continental inquisitorial model with overriding jurisdiction throughout EU territories would have a major impact on the traditional systems both in Ireland and the UK.
It is good for us that we have the power to do this, in spite of the fact that we are not completely satisfied.
As regards pricing policy, there are sometimes extreme cases which may require derogations from the principles laid down in the report.
In the near future - and I can assure you of this - you will see just how seriously we mean to take these rules.
They turn a blind eye to the masters of corruption, the big groups controlling oil, water supply, or public works. They could clamp down on them since their head offices are here in Europe.
This is another example of the fact that the European Union is prepared to help and to give money but the political leadership lacks coherence.
A number of countries have been in the forefront of introducing more competitive postal services.
A case in point is the Mediterranean, including my country' s fishing industry.
These findings form the basis of the European programmes to protect the Barents Sea, and that is why I would ask you to examine a draft letter setting out the most important facts and to make Parliament's position, as expressed in the resolutions which it has adopted, clear as far as Russia is concerned.
Is it true that the contents of all parts of the proposal will be approved?
This infatuation with strand IIIC is all the stranger in that the rapporteur himself acknowledges in his explanatory statement that 'the draft guidelines do not provide any indication of possible fields of co-operation' (p.17) and that 'the responsibilities are diffuse and vague' (p.18).
The IGC that led to the enormous Maastricht Treaty lasted a year.
Such policies are necessary, and I would like to see them developed further.
For this reason, one of the most important and essential objectives which we should set in the European Union is to make efforts to create new jobs in rural areas, outside of the agricultural sector, in sectors such as rural tourism, sport, culture, heritage conservation, the conversion of businesses, new technologies, services, etc. However, even though the role of agriculture is not exclusive, it is still essential, not only to prevent economic and social disintegration and the creation of ghost towns, but also because farmers play a fundamental role in managing the land, in preserving biodiversity and in protecting the environment.
LIFE is the only budget line for direct assistance for the environment in the Community budget, and one cannot help but note that it does not live up to our ambitions since the amounts allocated to it have been stagnating for years. Despite the enlargement which has already taken place, when we renewed the first LIFE programme to move on to the second, despite enlargement, the level of appropriations remained the same.
The Commission and the Council will each have to decide for themselves what these might be.
There is an enormous amount of work to be done to keep to our commitments by the fateful year 2008, by which time we shall have to return to 1990 levels of greenhouse gas emissions.
I shall restrict my speech to one particular act which took place a few days ago, partly as a consequence of events alluded to in the report we are debating here.
In cases such as this, where there is uncertainty, simulators are used.
The next item is the debate on the talks in Austria on forming a government.
And there are more and more of us in the world.
We hope that 2000 will be the year for action, in the same way that 1999 was the year for expectations.
In the lifetime of this Commission and this Parliament we must succeed in the task of winning the difficult and uneasy peace in south-eastern Europe.
Here we are here again in this Parliament discussing yet another maritime disaster.
Mr President, I would like to take up the matter of the statute for assistants, which we have always considered to be a priority, and inform you that - as the Italian delegation of the group - in response to the invitation from the group leader, Mr Barón Crespo, we have forwarded the contracts that we drew up with the assistants to the Quaestors.
Our proposal to split the costs has a crucial advantage, namely that we won't be an immediate candidate for the Court of Justice when the directive is adopted.
Mr President, on a point of order I should like to ask you for clarification of the Rules of Procedure: namely Rules 133(2) and 138(4). These are both about voting.
The Commission is aware of the construction of the harbour, but we know nothing about the warehouse or the rest of the infrastructure mentioned by the honourable Member.
Mr President, Commissioner, permit me, first of all, to make reference to two facts.
Even if the Commission is still reluctant to say so in too explicit a fashion, its periodic report demonstrates the urgent need to promote polycentric development of the Community area through the Union' s structural policies and within the scope of the approach initiated by the SEC.
Firstly, I would not wish to take up the philosophical issues of subsidiarity and the sovereignty of Member States, although I am very much in favour of having such a debate, for my regular viewing of British television programmes has shown me what the national politicians are conjuring up there in the way of threats posed by the continent to the home-grown legal system.
Yes, it does say: 'Coherence of different Union policies with development policy' .
All this will be managed with the help of modern technology in any area of the European Union.
We have to act now, before it is too late.
The very word bankruptcy, the legal concept of bankruptcy, does not cover the same accounting concept in each of the Member States of the Union.
We want to arrive at a solution where certain hurdles are created vis-à-vis the business world, but once these have been overcome, implementation is as easy as it possibly could be.
European policy has liberalised monopoly markets - energy, telecommunications and air transport - and the target, the focus, was always the consumer.
This type of tourism must be promoted and supported because it allows people to work in tourist destinations, not just during the summer when we go swimming in the sea, for example, but also during winter when we go to take the air.
On behalf of the Socialist Group, I would like to focus on the point of internal reform.
I should like to say a few words about coccidiostats.
The current difficulties must also be taken into account so that this town can adopt the necessary measures, as indicated previously.
This is the only way to guarantee that the network, from collection to distribution, will be a comprehensive network which cannot be broken up or used only in part and according to the convenience of postal service operators.
The first question concerns the implementation of the precautionary principle.
We even adopt numerous resolutions condemning every violation of human rights.
(Parliament approved the joint text)
There are two political reasons why our committee and myself as its chairman must speak out about this issue.
High unemployment in the European Union concerns all of us, especially now that the downward trend does not seem to be persisting.
Five countries have transposed this into national legislation and the rest are at the discussion stage.
Concerning some remarks about the role of social protection systems, the cost of social protection and the part played by those systems in the competitiveness of the Member States, I should like to say that in Europe policies strive to combine competitiveness and social cohesion.
In setting up numerous hurdles their sole aim is to hamper an efficient ecological material flow policy and by going down the road of type approvals they seek to delay the implementation of the directives by 12 years or more.
One of the matters to be settled is whether Members are to receive equal pay, and where they are to pay tax.
A financial instrument of this order ought to be transparent and effective, and this is not the case for the following reasons: poorly defined selection criteria, dubious uncoordinated operations, assessments not made public and the lack of any assessment policy.
May I add that, on behalf of the Commission, I listened with great interest to the pleas which have been made just now and that I have a great deal of sympathy for the unease which underlies these pleas.
When it comes to the Balkans and Kosovo, I also hope that the Council will comply with Parliament' s and, as I understand it, also the Commission' s demands for a multiannual budget for operations in Kosovo.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I have read and re-read the Commission' s document setting out the strategic objectives for its term in office.
In my view, this regional approach, provided it is understood correctly, i.e. as a method of contributing to economic recovery in the region itself, is in fact the right one to adopt.
The European Parliament has been at the forefront of the battle to promote and defend human rights, and it has succeeded in overcoming the limits imposed by self-interest and "national interests" , which are sometimes reflected in the positions adopted by the Member States and even by other European Union institutions.
It also has excellent cultural and relational links, through twinnings for example. INTERREG III, strand A, would allow the regions in this area to advance a number of structural projects needed to develop small and medium-sized undertakings and to promote research and technical development through knowledge transfer.
Finally, this directive should enter into force at the earliest opportunity.
With the rate at which the representation of women is developing at international level, it will take 2,300 years to achieve a balance between men and women.
In specific terms, we have been able to find a common language in terms of the mandate given to the Commission for the next round of WTO negotiations, at which this will be a central issue.
The directive concerning end-of-life vehicles will stand as an example for future legislation.
He does not need a government to do so, or a parliament, nor does he need a Commission to do so!
It has major institutional implications which obviously go beyond the specific area of competition; I am therefore not qualified to give an opinion, and this is obviously a matter for the broader context of the Intergovernmental Conference.
It is far more important for the majority of society than the waste involved in financial operations or the scandalous enrichment of a minority of large shareholders.
I therefore believe that it is very important for everyone to back this European Union plan and for it to be further developed.
This House is very good at producing resolutions and legislation and we sometimes, in this institution, forget that Europe cannot survive alone.
Thirdly, because it sets out a clear procedure to combat pollution caused by heavy metals.
This is even more important given that there is no clear proof that BSE and scrapie are unrelated.
Mr President, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism had an in-depth discussion on the URBAN initiative which produced many ideas.
I want to emphasise strongly that changing our control systems will definitely not mean relaxing them.
It was very small.
That is why we sustain that conclusion as we continue to uphold the values and the law. Without fragility, without complacency, without ambiguity, but in the service of the whole Union and every Member State of the Union and its people.
This resolution is already the fourth in a row within a short space of time in connection with the Chechen tragedy.
The meeting held in Beijing in October 1999 confirmed that, on the one hand, the Chinese authorities were willing to make concessions on issues relating to the dialogue itself, with a restructuring of the dialogue and of discussion of legal forms of repression such as the death penalty and administrative detention. On the other hand, they will not give any ground on the pivotal questions of the single party system and territorial integrity.
We think that the role of food safety, specifically in terms of everything linked to public health, is one of our presidency' s essential tasks. It is therefore one of the priorities of our programme.
This responsibility cannot only be borne by the Commissioner for Development and Humanitarian Aid, however much we like to see him or hear him talk, or by the Development Council or the parliamentary Committee on Development and Cooperation.
They rightly included the problem with monetary union and centralist government and presented a number of alternative democratic principles.
I will not talk about codecision here, but this certainly does not mean I do not consider it important.
The aim was simply to offer a better service and also to put the emphasis on the user in liberalising the postal services.
I cannot help but wonder why the Commission has not done more.
Since then, the Fisheries Council meeting of 16 December decided on drastic reductions in the total allowable catches for certain species such as cod and anchovy which were in the region of 25 percent for cod and 43 percent for anchovy for the year 2000.
I shall therefore reiterate that, as the rapporteur has already said quite clearly, LIFE is the only specific financial instrument for the implementation of the European Union' s policy on the environment.
This remarkable upshot of the Kosovar war negotiations can therefore justifiably be seen as the internal, political establishment of the Republic of Macedonia the second time round.
I should like to express my great appreciation of Mrs Lienemann' s work on this matter.
Tourism is basically small businesses and therefore a very fertile area for job creation.
I have to confess that I fail to comprehend why a certain opening ceremony was held in Spain.
We are not just confined to Brussels or Strasbourg.
Are there any comments?
In this respect, as you will know, the European Parliament is working on an initiative to form a common diplomatic corps of the Community. This is clearly not intended to replace the diplomatic services of the Member States but to complement these and possibly improve their coordination.
In other words we need to go further than what has been referred to as the important "Amsterdam leftovers" .
What are the main priorities that you hope to achieve at the next summit meetings?
The Commission' s communication on its strategic objectives for 2000-2005, which we have debated this week, contained absolutely nothing on this vast subject, except the reminder, in a single line, that the euro coins and notes are due to come into circulation on 1 January 2002.
We have all noted that the conversion phase will bring uncertainty and risks with it.
At a time when we are looking at the whole reform process it is critical that we send the right signal.
Thirdly, it is vital to have, first of all, a universal postal service at an affordable price for all citizens, wherever they may be; secondly, to have a uniform price for all Member States; and thirdly, to have daily mail deliveries and collections on working days.
I am also saying this as a former environment minister.
In this sense, the proposed amendments tabled by me and other members on behalf of the group represent an improvement on the demands set out in the common position.
Some of the socialists under the direction of Mr Bernd Lange say: yes, we approve of this principle but we need not implement it until 2010 or 2012 according to Amendment No 45.
That is why I believe that we were right to take action quickly, to recognise the urgency of the situation and make funds available.
The imminent commencement of negotiations on a stabilisation and association agreement is the most powerful example of our good relations.
Do we have the results of this impact study?
The proposed change will make the systems more effective, both in terms of inputs and in terms of measured and accountable outcomes.
We are convinced a rapid start to these negotiations and their speedy conclusion is the only way to achieve peace in the region - peace which did not automatically come with the end of the Kosovo war - thus avoiding the recurrence of further disintegration and a return to chaos and violence, with all the consequences of that in terms of continental, if not world, instability.
Many existing European Union policies and programmes may simply have passed their sell-by date, or have been proved unwieldy or ineffective when administered at European level.
However, what we are basically missing is the political courage and determination of the Commission and the Member States to take decisions and apply the current regulations.
It is a scandalous state of affairs that must be ended with all haste, and I hope that February does not see this dossier being postponed yet again!
It also provides the opportunity to develop welfare provision.
We are talking in general terms - and this is more serious - about contradictions between our economic and trade policies and our defence policies.
The other parties are not paying.
It should prevent exclusion from being part of everyday life.
This, of course, does not mean that, if the economic climate is less than favourable, the budget could not fluctuate up or down slightly. It means that, in the long and medium term, there should be a balance or surplus.
You have to accept the fact that there is no acquis communautaire on nuclear safety.
Please rise, then, for this minute' s silence.
These amendments actually have the advantage - and I should like to stress this - of reconciling environmental constraints and economic imperatives.
Finally, even if the Tobin tax is designed to curb speculations with currencies, there is still the risk that even non-speculative streams would be affected, and that is not the intention.
The Commission fully supports the proposal to introduce the commitments under the OSPAR Convention into the text.
Apparently, they were.
Mr President, Commissioner, Kosovo was hopefully the last occasion on which international law could be interpreted as saying that dictators could persecute minorities in the most repellent way on the grounds that "it is happening within their own nation" .
These discussions have also recommenced more intensively in the relevant bodies of the Council, and I think that I can say, in a spirit of openness and greater flexibility, and because we all recognise the importance that this has, particularly for the general public, that drawing up this statute is a vital factor in ensuring both the dignity of the functions of Members of the European Parliament and the necessary transparency and good management of public funds.
The regulation dating from 1993 on the application of the Protocol must be brought into harmony with the methodology of the European system of accounts at national and regional level.
The debate was fixed for this morning and on that basis I had arranged to see visitors from the Balkans this evening.
I am sure that Mr Pomes Ruiz is encouraged by that.
Thank you, Commissioner.
We need to have a long memory when we say: " for once we are united, at last as far as port charges and requirements are concerned, and will not play one off against the other in the European Union."
That is my intention and I would ask the House to give this report overwhelming support!
I think it is extremely useful to open up the communication channels with the citizen at an early stage. This did not really happen for the Treaty of Amsterdam or the Treaty of Maastricht and this has only led to a great deal of mistrust.
I think that the House can therefore be confident that not only are the civil rights of individuals who may be accused or required to produce evidence safeguarded, but so is the interest of the properly constituted legal bodies of every Member State in seeking to get information, or the right to interview or investigate anybody associated with the Commission.
It only remains to put this principle into practice.
We look to him as the man to root out cartels.
We are giving a positive opinion on the convening of the IGC precisely because we have been impressed by the attitude of the Portuguese Presidency which has taken on board our request that the agenda of the IGC be widened.
The current figures reaching us on the extent of the disaster are terrifying, as the Commissioner has already said: around one million people homeless and more than one hundred thousand on top of roofs or trees, waiting for a helicopter to come and save them.
Let us call this a negative tender franchise.
I shall also refer the matter to the College of Quaestors, and I am certain that they will be keen to ensure that we comply with the regulations we ourselves vote on.
I would also like to mention that experience has nonetheless taught us that the processing cost is in fact passed on.
Mr Prodi, I repeat that this is, in our opinion, a slightly short-sighted view.
I had the honour of being elected the European Co-President at the beginning of this fifth term and Mr Clair from Mauritius is the new ACP Co-President.
With regard to your suggestions, Mr Jonckheer, you already know that my staff, who, although short-handed as usual, are fortunately highly qualified, are working hard to produce the register of State aids and the State aids 'scoreboard' .
If we want fair world trade we will have to gain acceptance for this principle during the next WTO round of multilateral negotiations, because it would be contradictory if the European Union imposed a rigid but fair discipline on itself, only for the United States and the other major powers to do the opposite and to take advantage of our restraint.
You must lay these concerns to rest for, as you yourself have said, when we are able to present a united transatlantic front, we are in a position to do something.
We shall now support your Amendment No 6, but I wonder why you did not support our own amendment in committee.
Another issue is that of what we are to do when state aid is declared unlawful.
I also noted a mistake in the compromise motion for a resolution, which you no doubt overlooked.
There must be an overriding economic interest.
Remember that the Council of Ministers, absent again this evening from our debate, approved the 1997 discharge - not the 1996 - on the very day the Commission itself resigned on 15 March.
The other main reason, however, is that, even though we are concerned here with a Convention (and therefore with international cooperation), there is no doubt about the trend expressed in the proposal. And the trend is towards creating, in the longer term, a common European area of jurisdiction, common EU criminal law and common EU administration of justice.
I have classified the issues raised by the honourable Members into four groups.
We would like to thank the President of the Republic, as well as the Government and all the politicians who spoke and we too, in this House, would also call on the German Chancellor not to intervene in Italian internal affairs.
You are responsible for millions of unemployed and for millions living in poverty, insecurity and increasing misery because of your ultra-trade-oriented and ultra-liberal policies and because of the forced march towards the single currency.
We all agree on the fact that it needs to be done and why it is necessary.
On the contrary, I object to this systematically applied strategy.
It has been repeatedly stated by expert opinion that the programme of structural reforms combined with an expansionary programme of investment and growth is capable of pulling the European economy out of its state of inertia while one-sided policies are condemned to fail.
I am pleased to confirm that in my country they are working to ensure that the detailed practicalities, the logistics and utilisation of information are developed in the best interests of the resource of the industry and decision makers and our Group has no difficulty in supporting these reports.
That will require a new political culture, not only in words, but also in practice, which will take into consideration the reality of Member States and regions.
Is the Commission prepared to adopt an action plan to increase the active participation of women in decision-making in the environmental field?
Human resources are too thin in relation to the volume of aid that we are supposed to manage.
Finally, on the content of the debate, I welcome the fact that the presidency has put the area of freedom, security and justice at the top of its agenda.
It is an important Community initiative which, together with the three other initiatives, URBAN, LEADER and INTERREG, is financed out of the Structural Funds.
Good governance criteria broadly covering questions of refugees, corruption, human rights and democracy will be part of the finalised accord between the European Union and all countries signing the Lomé Convention from Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific region.
Funding for NGO programmes in Tajikistan amounted to EUR 7.42 million in 1998 and 1999.
The directive remains in place.
The problem of overwork highlighted by the Commission is not a sufficient reason for making radical changes to the legal system.
The system of individual approvals needed urgent reform, as was unanimously requested by specialised companies, academics and lawyers.
This service must therefore be kept public.
From the Commission' s point of view, our conclusion is that this is a good agreement, and we want to thank the Members of Parliament who worked on it - especially Mrs Frassoni.
As long as the economy does not weigh up the needs of all in a democratic way but is more concerned with making a profit for the benefit of a few, it is questionable as to whether democracy functions better under the rule of employers than under the rule of local councils.
We shall try to achieve a consensus on this matter.
Mozambique, which is now suffering a foreseeable disaster, just as the famine now threatening in Ethiopia was foreseeable, is excluded from these plans.
You still have not finished that agenda.
. (ES) Mr President, many thanks, first of all, to the rapporteur for his splendid work.
They will not represent an insurmountable cost for the European car industry.
The fishery sectors in Europe face serious problems and I am a great supporter of the fishery sector.
Both biological and economic information are included.
The third area of incoherence is human rights.
Well, they see the planet's resources being unevenly spread.
The proposal will take account of the studies and, in particular, the need to maintain a universal service, to develop efficient safeguards for consumers, to create a climate favourable to new jobs and to solve any problems relating to competition.
I compliment the new Commissioner responsible for food safety, Mr Byrne.
Mr President, ever since I was elected to this Parliament in 1994 I have never witnessed a report which had such anti-Irish sentiments and overtones as the Jonckheer report which we are debating today.
Today, Europe is facing a similar challenge, and we know that, just as history has been unforgiving in the past, it will not be forgiving in the present.
Mrs Myller then asked me about the location of the Authority.
The difficult part, which will fall to the Convention, is therefore to draw up an ambitious and politically significant text which can be integrated as such into the Treaties.
Mr President, I voted for the Decourrière report on the Community initiative INTERREG, mainly because of the reply Commissioner Barnier gave to some Members who took the floor and asked for this programme to make greater reference to border regions with maritime frontiers. I voted for it, not just because I was born in a coastal town, Genoa, but above all because the frontiers of regions bordered by the sea are frontiers too.
There is no need for me to remind you of Jörg Haider' s political bias and of his many xenophobic and racist public statements, which are also anti-European.
This is why it is necessary - and Mr Van Hecke has already mentioned this, and this is also what we clearly ask for in our resolution - that the role of mining in this vulnerable desert area is reassessed.
Question Time (Commission)
Mr President, how policy decisions are arrived at is surely fundamental.
All the good policies and regulations in the world will not lead to conservation without an effective system to ensure that the rules are respected.
It spreads very easily through mucus in saline water, etc. Under the 1993 directive, not only the diseased fish can be culled but also the farmed fish where individuals are affected, exactly like the case when one cow is sick in a herd and the whole herd is culled according to the principle of precaution.
I think that we need to consider how we can best present this to the general public.
However, this is not always the best solution as there are not always enough women ready to enter a difficult and competitive world which they regard as essentially masculine because it has traditionally been reserved for men.
The end of this artificial separation of Europe marked the start of a new era.
The Union' s borders must no longer be an obstacle to balanced development, but - on the contrary - an opportunity, a bridge to more fruitful cooperation.
We therefore have a number of amendments.
Your Parliament, may I suggest, Madame President, should wait to see if the party of Haider has an effect on the policies of that country.
The bulk of these financial transactions are purely speculative and do not involve any trade in goods or investments.
My question specifically concerned the reaction of the US Government to the text of the preliminary draft.
It merely permits the Commission to do so should it so wish.
All of this will provide greater coordination, transparency and efficiency in our energy programmes, into which we will also have to incorporate the SAVE programme, which we will be discussing soon.
We must make sure that Amendments Nos 49 and 87 leave the deletion exemption so that whisky can continue to be drunk in "high quality", which means it must use good, Scottish peat water.
In my opinion, the best thing the Council could do would be to cease occupying that part of Yugoslavia and search for a solution acceptable to all sides, with respect for the various national characteristics in the area and especially respect for the principle of non-intervention in the internal affairs of another, independent country.
But the vertical legislation in Directive 90/220 on how to carry out the environmental risk assessment of GMOs has changed since then and is still changing.
The ship was sinking and the captain realised that it was sinking and that it was not even going to make it to the next port.
In any case, the question that this raises is an important one and the Council will not fail to support the proposals that the Commission has presented in this respect.
Certain amendments concern improvements to the Commission' s proposal which we adopted as early as at the first reading or else they reintroduce into the directive such parts of the original proposal as the Council has removed.
Is it the case that the car industry definitely cannot afford these?
What we should do now, I feel, is wait, particularly until we know the economic and social impact of one phase of liberalisation before taking the risk of destabilising an entire section of our universal public service, which many of our fellow citizens still value highly.
The debate is closed.
Let us hope - and we do hope - to be guided by the winds of change created by the Intergovernmental Conference, the reform of the Commission - which will also affect the development services -, this new legislature and the prospects for enlargement, to perfect a more coherent political union.
The Commission is also aware of concern about the possible intention of using the plant to produce weapons-grade material.
But of course the new Convention must be measured not by the fact that it exists but by the extent to which it can contribute to the EU commitment to poverty eradication and the achievement of the international development targets.
I believe in a social market economy based on a successful market operating subject to certain rules intended to guarantee the general interest. Specifically, at the moment, this means the protection of investors.
Secondly there is a lady within thirteen weeks of retirement who is desperate for news of a decision that will affect seriously her financial circumstances in old age.
Thirdly, the European Union cannot and should not enlarge endlessly.
But access to national responsibilities often depends upon the introduction to politics provided by such local mandates.
Such transactions, according to the argument, bear very little relation to fundamental economic variables. This has also just been underlined by Mr Désir.
I know that Commissioner Nielson and some of the other Commissioners are doing a fine job, but the rest of the Commission also needs to focus more clearly on that continent, partly by including it among its strategic goals.
Mr President, initially our Group did not fully understand the need to table this motion for a resolution on events which seemed to be a local phenomenon.
Madam President, the European Union was built upon the idea 'never again' , meaning never again do we want to see xenophobia, concentration camps, anti-Semitism, heightened nationalism or war.
Like honourable Members I recognise the stabilising role that this country has played during the Balkan tragedy, in particular when it comes to integrating the Albanian minority into the political and social life of the country.
I will not go into the basic issue any further for everyone has their arguments.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, at this stage, following this debate which I have listened to most attentively and with great interest, I should like to make a few comments in addition to the guidelines and the statements which it has been my honour to present to you in the course of recent weeks in the company of President Prodi.
Above all, we wish to see an extension of the competences of the Court of Justice, hand in hand with its capacity to fulfil its obligations, in other words, its resources.
This suggests to me that we should also look to the shipowners, to the flag state and the inspection authorities to shoulder their share of the responsibility.
Thank you, Mr Segni, I shall do so gladly.
It seems over the top to us for other Member States to be given the option of systematically carrying out inspections systematically with a view to safeguarding public order before they issue cards.
I would like to say to Mrs Pack that I am in complete agreement with her when she says that the Commission should insist that other contributors fulfil their commitments.
It gives the impression that they are three minor or insignificant subjects whereas in fact they are three extremely serious and important subjects, and difficult, so difficult that we did not have sufficient political courage collectively at Amsterdam to deal with them in depth.
An initial joint PHARE/CIP committee is to meet in February to assess this coordination, and let me confirm my attentiveness and availability with regard to this, together with my colleagues and fellow Commissioners Verheugen, Patten and Poul Nielson.
Mrs Banotti apparently promised to write a letter explaining why permission was withdrawn but so far no letter has been received.
However, all too often we witness events which are in stark contrast with these principles.
As for the important educational task which the European Union must carry out as regards culture, one of the programme' s most obvious limitations is the level of funding - we have heard this several times - which censures the fact that the Council at least - certainly not the Commissioner - is not completely aware of the importance of cultural action: the document which prioritises the economic factor over social integration also bears witness to this.
We are concerned about stability on the financial markets, not for the sake of the financial markets, but because this has to do with own growth, our own investments and our own jobs in the European Union.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3, 5, 6, 12, 14, 18 and 16.
The vote will take place on Thursday.
Unfortunately, this is not true of them all, but this is why I am calling on the Commission to follow up on the Viceconte report.
The debate is closed.
The Commission is to do its job and give proper attention to the issue before we come back with an assessment of what needs to be done.
These smaller companies either dispose of their cargo or mix it with other cargo, which causes problems.
The European Union, for its part, will need to adapt its institutions and policies in order to prepare for enlargement.
The second sentence should read: '.., weshalb diese Hilfen' (which is why we have this aid), then 'ohne Bedingungen und' (unconditionally and) should be deleted, and it continues as follows: 'ohne Abhängigkeit von reziproken Anweisungen von seiten des Geberlandes gewährt werden müssen' . (and therefore that the aid must not be dependent on the reciprocal orders from the donor countries).
Finally, of course, the Cyprus question has a role in the discussions with Turkey.
(ES) We have seen a report concerned with water quality in Europe transformed into an instrument of commercial war.
By rejecting the rapporteur' s Amendment No 39, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has aligned itself with the Council.
I am delighted to see the result in Zimbabwe.
The head of the government of one of the nine provinces belongs to this party and it is involved in all the other provincial governments.
But dishing out increasing amounts of money is no guarantee for improved spending.
Mr President, colleagues, a happy new year and millennium to you all.
Similarly, as concerns the field of justice and criminal law, which we have discussed today, I believe not only that the different criminal law, juridical and administrative legislative systems should be coordinated, but also that we must at last formulate common standards: an offence committed in Italy must also be viewed as an offence in Great Britain, Spain or elsewhere.
The renovation project, which lasted for months, cut off this important route between the north and south of Europe.
And we have got to take on board the views of the fishermen.
Mrs Lucas mentioned that the Stabex and Sysmin system ought to be continued with.
It is easy to counterfeit the euro.
So we condemn that hypocrisy and the double standards, especially of the British government and the other largely socialist heads of EU governments and include that of the United States.
This is very good, and we are pleased to see it.
Finally, you are daring to condemn and penalise the free and democratic vote of millions of Austrians, or are allowing this to happen, just because the result does not suit you.
That is why I consider it to be essential - and fair - for these principles to be established at the next WTO round.
To achieve this I was ready and I am ready to make certain sacrifices, but not just anything! Most especially, I am no longer ready to accept the formation of a liberal single market if Europe is not at the same time capable of defending the values on which it is based and which, in the 1960s, made me a committed European!
It is in this respect that this House has significantly - and in my opinion rightly - altered the balance proposed by the Council by firmly and decidedly supporting a reinforcement of these guarantees of fair trials in all the amendments.
I therefore invite the Members of Parliament who form the great majority, those who last November ruled that the future of Europe was deserving of debates that went far wider than the Amsterdam leftovers, to take up their pilgrims' staffs and go and convince their own governments that this IGC must be extended, since this is permitted according to the resolution of the Helsinki Council.
In this document, the Commission proposes to stimulate debate with a view to promoting the increased participation of women in research in Europe.
True, we are now given the beginning of such a power in this new system.
I am happy to say that I can regard the end result of conciliation as very satisfactory for Parliament as the joint text has incorporated all its amendments either in full or in a re-worded form.
Of course, we are not here to defend a particular national interest or a particular industrial lobby. We are here to build a Europe that is competitive on the world market and to safeguard jobs in economic sectors where we are actually competitive.
We need an agenda which can be translated into political action by the Commission on an ongoing basis in the way in which I have just described.
In addition to that, there is the question of duty-free.
The Finance Ministers behave as if they were in an intergovernmental meeting, when in the Ecofin Council and in the Euro 11 Council, which is an unacceptable way to go on.
I do not think that I can give a more complete answer on the specific case that you quoted.
It is useless to talk of the Roma houses which have been burnt down and the thousands upon thousands of new refugees and the refugees from Krajina, who are now living, barricaded in, in Kosovo, abandoned by the UNHCR, which itself has been abandoned by the donors, while the emergency is still of dramatic proportions.
It was a baptism of fire but we have a saying in the Netherlands appropriate for this occasion: in at the deep end and you will swim in no time.
There is great potential for future job creation in rural areas here and we must exploit this if we wish to offer fresh prospects to people living in the countryside.
We underlined our serious concerns about freedom of the press and freedom of speech and we pressed the Russians to clarify the circumstances of Mr Babitsky' s detention in view of their obligations in the field of human rights.
The Office is not yet ready to move into the new building.
Mr President, I too would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work.
First of all, we need tough regulations, which can be implemented.
Cooperation on these matters within the framework of the EU should create added value, based on the exchange of experiences and the reciprocal evaluation of the way in which policies are developing, the aim being to define best practice.
Essentially, the agreement deals with two points: one is the right of the European Parliament to be informed, which is the sine qua non for the genuine exercise of its right to intervene pursuant to Article 8 of the decision.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
As for the Internet, Europe has finally found the courage to say that we need rules.
We have heard that in a short space of time the storm left us with approximately 120 million cubic metres of solid timber, and this is only an estimate.
I am very fond of him.
In fact, water becomes simply one more product subject to the laws of the market.
Mr President, Commissioner Monti, there is much that is good in Mr Jonckheer' s report on state aid for manufacturing industry and certain other sectors.
Investment levels are too low, unemployment is still too high and there is insufficient growth.
May I assure Mr MacCormick and other Members of this Parliament that the present situation where excise taxes differ between Member States is indeed something which is not conducive to the proper functioning of the internal market.
I will briefly comment on these issues before concentrating on the last point which I regard as the essential issue in today' s debate.
Only, without transparency there will be no acceptance, indeed there can be no modernisation without transparency.
So, in the first part on the new forms of European governance, the words 'federalism' and 'superstate' are not mentioned at all.
Medicines are available in the United States but the United States is not making them cheap enough for the people in Africa.
Let us hope that we can avoid institutional upheavals by having an ongoing dialogue which assumes from the outset that Parliament will be an equal partner in deciding the outcome of Commission reform.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0003/2000). We will examine questions to the Commission.
So, in the coming months, we will be producing communications from the Commission, for example, which have a direct bearing on the whole question of preventing conflict or managing crises.
It is the defence of a territory, the protection of a country and in general of interests considered to be vital?
The Nicosia Government has expressed its satisfaction with the Helsinki conclusions, which open up the way to accession to the European Union without solving the partition of the island beforehand.
We nonetheless foresee two problems for which solutions will need to be found.
Finally, on the subject of modernising the implementation of Articles 85 and 86 of the Treaty, we do not think that decentralised application would necessarily be going in the right direction.
Finally, our last commitment is to improve quality of life.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
I would like to mention here again the URBAN report, in which the rapporteur, in the explanatory statements, has dealt admirably with the issue of the minimum sum of EUR 500 per inhabitant as per the Commission' s guidelines.
According to the Theato report, the European Public Prosecutor is needed, in particular, in order to better support the inquiries of the anti-fraud office, OLAF.
I should like to remind you that the very serious environmental problems facing us today in the shape of climate change, the depletion of primeval forests and overfishing, constantly affect our common and vital but, in some ways, unowned resources.
It is within this changing global framework that we have to position ourselves.
Thirdly, I believe that, so far at least, FYROM has shown that it is capable of using the various instruments properly.
We fully endorse the Community measures which were recommended in the Commission communication: advantageous taxation, that is, fiscal measures that offer conditions that are truly competitive in this market to the production sector - 95% of which, I would point out, is made up of small and medium-sized businesses, which is equivalent to 2 million small and medium-sized businesses in the European tourism sector; it awards special attention to vocational qualifications in the European Union, and therefore to investing in training; finally, it undertakes to make the job market transparent.
For this reason, it is right to look at the issue of safeguarding common interests, and to establish better links with legal systems within the individual States.
Mr President, as the rapporteur said, this House has concentrated on the particular issue of phone tapping in order to remove this from the Convention.
Car manufacturers, the suppliers of materials and equipment manufacturers must make an effort to limit the use of hazardous substances and therefore must ensure at the design stage that recycled materials can be used in the manufacture of cars.
In order for all policies to be similarly permeated by the concept of equality, it is especially important that people in key posts should have the basic knowledge required.
Mr Alavanos knows that I have been to Greece twice under the quite tragic circumstances of the earthquake disaster. During these visits, I held discussions with the Greek Government and raised this concern about the correct implementation of the partnership objective and requirement.
Moreover, the concept of 'author' is not defined in the Treaties.
In my opinion, such a far-reaching scorched earth policy is really unnecessary.
Just like Europol. Europol, involving police cooperation, does not rank above the national police forces, but is there for the purpose of exchanging information between police forces.
Mr President, I am taking the floor to speak about INTERREG, but I shall confine myself to a few criticisms, which will clearly also enable me to keep to my speaking time.
Involve us please in your discussions on both policy and process.
If there are such rules, who has the responsibility for enforcing them and what are they doing to discharge that responsibility?
What is the Commission prepared to do to ensure that unit managers and more senior managers go through the necessary gender training?
It would be even better if they were involved to a greater extent in the processes of framing and implementing the programmes concerned, otherwise it will be difficult to determine and defend their role in relation to the local and national authorities and even the citizens.
It must therefore be able to count on the support of the Members of the European Parliament, who will surely rally behind this proposal.
As has also been pointed out, in summer 1998 the Commission submitted a communication listing a very wide variety of areas where measures need to be taken, such as information, further training - an important area, cooperation between the euro-states and of course even beyond them, and measures under criminal law.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall confine my observations to Mr Decourrière' s report.
I refer to point 9.
We should not only focus this debate on the Austrian question.
. Mr President, industrial change, which can be gradual or sudden, is driven by new technologies, worldwide competition or consumer preferences.
McNally Report (A5-0082/1999)
Women deserve more than a quota.
If today we do not staunchly support the Council, then history will judge us, saying that we achieved the political equivalent of the Munich Agreement.
So we need to do this.
The amount quoted in Amendment No 12 does not, however, tally with the budget set on the basis of Agenda 2000.
If I have not already done so, I would also thank Mr Karl-Heinz Florenz for the hard work he has put into this proposal on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
Why is it so important in that sector?
First of all, Mr President, can I thank the Commissioner for that very useful response.
The support allocated by the Structural Funds for technological cohesion, or research and technical developments, within the Community support frameworks for that period is estimated at approximately EUR 7.5 billion.
In the meantime, the highest Russian authorities are casting a veil of secrecy over the mysterious disappearance of this courageous journalist.
In other words, once this study is complete, the Commission will issue its opinion as soon as possible.
Providing support for culture meets with wide-spread acceptance, and this certainly cannot be said of all policy decisions.
Madam President, Mr Jonckheer has stated that this could be one of the measures for stabilising the financial markets.
I believe that this is a report for which cooperation between committees has worked very well, and the result, which we have received today, is moderate and thoughtful in a very delicate area.
The Commission and the Council have long endeavoured to encourage the two communities in Cyprus to undertake joint projects.
Mr Andersson' s report demands social convergence, that is to say that systems should be increasingly standardised within and throughout the EU.
That, too, is a step forward.
By not setting a specific date for the Member States to implement the directive and instead giving them a period of three months after its entry into force, we are introducing a flexibility clause which ensures that the directive will be implemented without delay.
In its opinion on the holding of an Intergovernmental Conference to amend the Treaties, the Commission noted that the European Council must decide during the year 2000 on the inclusion of certain items on the IGC agenda, in particular the European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
I hope that Turkey begins to play a constructive role in the Cyprus issue.
Mr President, having devoted itself over the last 40 years to establishing a common internal market, the House now faces the major new task of creating an area of freedom, security and justice, a task which we will only be able to master successfully if all the institutions of the Union work together towards this ambitious goal with mutual respect and consideration for each other' s competence.
Finally, we would urge Members to vote in particular against Amendment No 41 on capital requirements, because we feel that this would be very bad for the industry.
Curiously, a number of employers agreed with them, preferring the European "one-stop" system, which they consider to be more economical and more stable legally.
One of the major problems in this area was that if you do something wrong, especially when it comes to revenue of the European Union, then this will be termed an irregularity in one country and a crime in another.
The protective measures cover these countries too, and the views expressed by these countries have carried a lot of weight.
I would also like to assure you though that we will not hesitate to apply it should it prove necessary.
Over the next seven years, the Commission' s proposals concerning URBAN will entail a reduction in both the Community budget and the number of areas standing to benefit.
It is by no means certain that the European Union could have maintained a united front if this resolution had been put to the vote.
It is true that Mozambique' s democracy is still far from perfect, as shown by the way in which the results of the recent presidential elections were contested and doubts were cast upon them.
The procedures for the exercise of these implementing powers conferred on the Commission were laid down afresh in the Council Decision of June 1999.
I am therefore delighted at Mr Fischler' s response, particularly his recognition of the need to apply retroactive measures and to give a rapid response to the applications submitted.
I took the punishment that came to me.
Moreover, the Commission was also not able to provide the implementation report which, according to Article 23, it was to submit by 31 December 2000.
B5-0169/2000 by Mr Puerta and others, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, on outbursts of xenophobia in El Ejido (Spain);
All asylum seekers and refugees are to be included explicitly in the programmes, although this should be self-evident.
This will make the island of Ireland the centre of excellence in the future for food production.
As you know, there are problems which not only concern this House but also the European officials who are also European citizens.
I would recommend to you ongoing audits of human rights practices, eternal vigilance, not just outside our borders but within.
Could you please draw his attention to the fact that I have something to say to him?
However, I believe that in the end we have reached a reasonable agreement, which, like all agreements, is perhaps not perfect, but which, I believe, allows us to push ahead with the projects with which we were dealing.
The conservative government leaders Messrs Major and Kohl decided in a cosy fireside chat at the Edinburgh Summit that it was totally unnecessary for the Spanish to receive drinking water supplies which were as good as those of the Germans or English.
In addition, there is a clear tendency, in matters of international jurisdiction, more and more often to obtain a pure EU jurisdiction.
Irrespective of such legal considerations, it would be an unforgivable mistake, under the circumstances, to scrap financial control in the traditional sense at the very moment when those responsible for such matters in the Commission are, at long last, no longer out on a limb but set to become part of a chain of functioning supervisory and investigatory mechanisms.
I believe that local authorities and groups from the private and voluntary sector should be fully involved in the decision-making process for the spending of European Structural Funds.
Opinion multipliers, political groups and parties, MEPs and national MPs, elected representatives, as I have just said, local authorities or national parliaments, the Committee of the Regions, the Economic and Social Committee, organisations stemming from civil society and university and education circles will all be involved.
I would also like to point out, Madam President, that this Parliament voted to express its confidence in President Prodi during the previous legislature. It did so again during this legislature, in July, and then, in September, it voted once more to approve the whole Commission.
I would remind you that these projects are multiannual.
I can understand your concern.
If a company in France says that it has an employee who has to work in Denmark on a permanent basis, and only in Denmark, then it certainly ought only to be possible to apply for this card for Denmark.
We should no longer view development cooperation as an instrument of external and foreign relations, but as a policy in its own right.
I sincerely hope, in conclusion, that social Europe cannot be satisfied with mere words and pious hopes.
After all, recycling and the re-use of components form part of a sector which is not necessarily loss-making.
Cross-border services
Much has happened since the last time I was here to talk about foreign and security policy issues in our continent.
Mr President, the issue of social security systems is an important one.
Four years after the arrest of Mr Dutroux and his associates, we have still not had a trial, and we still do not know what is happening.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Brok, for his report.
We want to ensure that the EQUAL report, which is very important for refugees, the elderly, the handicapped and women, simply goes ahead.
Mr Stenmarck, Sweden is the only country in which prices rose far higher after liberalisation than in all the other Member States of the European Union.
I welcome the fact that Cuba is getting closer to joining this process. But for this to happen, there are also going to have to be a few changes in Cuba.
The Commission proposal is, as some of you have said, rather technical.
Of course, if consensus could be reached on this issue at the Intergovernmental Conference, there might eventually be progress.
We deplore, therefore, what is happening in Austria.
There is a very real link between the reform process in the Commission as such, and our ability to deliver on the ground which is the basis of the deal with the ACP countries.
I recognise the relevance of the arguments that Mr Souladakis has put forward.
If it were, Turkey would have a sort of right of veto over the accession of Cyprus to the European Union, which is, of course, unacceptable.
As you know, a high-level group has already been set up by the Portuguese Presidency, which will present its first report to the Summit Conference in June.
After all, what is social justice if it is without full employment?
The day before yesterday I was pleased to hear an interview given by the KFOR commander showing how much better matters in connection with this in Kosovo were starting to be, particularly as regards security, crime levels had been restored to an acceptable level.
Let me finish by addressing some of the other concerns expressed in the draft resolution submitted to this House.
The new Commission has already taken important steps to move away from the way it used to function.
In line with the usual procedure, it is the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN) which puts forward standards in this area, and they are then integrated in to the European Agreement concerning the International Carriage of Dangerous Goods by Road signed in Geneva in 1957 (known generally as ADR), applicable throughout Europe, whose terms and conditions form the basis for the legislation applicable within the EU.
In particular, we oppose the sections which deal with fiscal harmonisation and with the Commission' s becoming involved in telling the Member States what to do (see, for example, paragraph 7).
However, it is still the responsibility of the Member States' management authorities to select the projects to be implemented within these CSFs.
Finally, I abstained on the vote for a number of reasons.
This would represent real environmental progress because it would lead to a large reduction in CO2 which, if I have rightly understood the Kyoto Protocol, is the important factor.
Having listened to the Commissioner just now, we know that the Commission' s knowledge of the facts will result in a 'no' to the Tobin tax.
Everyone was supposedly pleased about it but, in reality, we have made little progress.
I welcome too the Council declaration of 1992, its resolution of 1997 and successive changes in the Treaty of European Union.
In fact, the common position which was issued at the end of last year was already a major improvement on the original proposal.
We will have to enlist the support of the many existing networks of women scientists and to obtain their assistance in framing a joint research policy.
As early as last June the Commission financed a first study. It was carried out by the regional environment centre for central and eastern Europe and concluded that there had been no large-scale ecological catastrophe.
In order to achieve this, action is required in four areas.
In France, in particular, we need to stop making labour alone fund medical insurance and pensions.
We have criteria which are applied and we know roughly what each of the regions of Europe should or could receive.
. (SV) Thank you, Mrs Schörling.
Mr Marset Campos, regardless of how we may see things with hindsight - and it is easy to see things with the benefit of hindsight, if you take no action yourself - I believe that, if we look at what happened in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and at the impunity that the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina led to, and the continuation of that impunity, then we might perhaps see the NATO military action in Kosovo in a somewhat less catastrophic light.
If these, which technically speaking are copies, were covered by the protection in force it would make the transfer of information - as the recommendation quite rightly states - expensive and complicated for no good reason.
Obviously, in the wake of the introduction of the euro, we need to create an integrated European financial market which is similar to the American and Japanese markets.
In the event of a judicial inquiry into the accusations against NATO, what will be done in respect of the High Representative for the CFSP, who was NATO Secretary-General during the crisis?
Since the Development Council is in agreement with what he says - and this is very significant - there is little we can say, as some previous speakers have pointed out.
B5-0164/2000 by Mr Leinen on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists,
It thus merits further reflection which, at a time in which the ambivalent reports on ECHELON are evoking shades of Big Brother, should probably go into greater detail on the means and methods to be used, on the one hand, to safeguard the rights of the individual, and on the other hand to facilitate an effective but at the same time correct and legitimate suppression of crime.
The pictures many of us will have seen of oil-soaked birds being put down by veterinary officials were both distressing and tragic.
We are also currently examining how we can most effectively implement the proposal for a classification system for documents, made in paragraph 50 of Mr van Hulten's report.
From the data which I am referring to today, it is evident that this disease is taking a disproportionate toll on the developing countries least capable of responding to its wide-ranging impact.
My party at home are certainly not racists, but we do not accept the rule or interference of the European Union very well.
As far as we are concerned, we look at things from the point of view of the interests of the working classes.
Finally, it is to be hoped that greater coordination will be sought between the INTERREG initiative and the existing Community programmes, which are significant for external policy, as a vector for greater integration and for the joint drafting of programmes.
Fourthly, I would like to be informed of why the Commission does not choose to apply the invalidity penalty in the case of evident infringements of the competition rules.
In the Netherlands, the competition authority is still in its infancy.
Instead, we should be reforming and decentralising control.
The creation of Europol represents one step towards achieving this objective. However, we must take the next step, which is to reinforce judicial cooperation in criminal matters in order to gradually establish a genuine European judicial area consistent with the objective of creating an area of freedom, security and justice.
The Union must make every effort to provide all the necessary support for them to carry out their important work.
To date, the group has not reached agreement on the strategy to be adopted in this respect, and in particular with regard to formulating a compromise to be tabled in the last resort in case of any amendments to the contrary, including Article 2(7) of the Charter of the United Nations, which refers to sovereignty.
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe, in fact, that it is more by luck than skill that there have not so far been any disasters due to the absence of the rules mentioned by the previous speakers.
Modern criminal law revolves around the quest for a balance, a dialogue between security and freedom.
If this is true, and it is, any appropriate policy which aims to find positive solutions to these problems must start from this point.
Parliament' s proposed solution of 18 months following the directive' s entry into force, for new vehicles, is not terribly realistic.
The fact that tax havens are frequently nothing but hard disk storage space for large European banks here at home must not be ignored.
The truth is that the European Parliament is still failing to gain the confidence and interest of national public opinion which is determined not to think about Europe, as demonstrated by the low turnout in the recent elections.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 18 February 2000.
For Greece, for the neighbouring countries Italy and Austria, but also for Europe as a whole, the social and economic restoration of the Balkans, bringing political stability, is a vitally important matter.
Most of them are an expression of the political differences among ourselves regarding the appropriateness and effectiveness of state aid, in view of the inadequacies, acknowledged or not, of private investment alone, the market failures or inadequacies of the market.
Mr President, it is true that we are in open disagreement on some of the choices made by the Council and the Commission, and I will refer to this later on.
There can be no worse situation than that of an elderly person living in a city.
Though our proposal to withdraw political invitations to any Austrian government representative to this European Parliament has not carried today, I give notice that we will further this proposal to ensure that any action within the powers of this European Parliament to combat the return of neo-Nazis to government in Europe can and will be taken.
Moreover, they constitute environmentally hazardous substances of the worst kind.
State aid is not only counterproductive because, as the Jonckheer report acknowledges, it gives rise to subsidy hunting with firms relocating from one country to another, but it is unacceptable because it allocates public monies to the enrichment of a handful of private shareholders.
This proposal for a regulation is supposed to be one of these legal bases!
We went ahead because we felt we should start this Parliament in the way in which we mean to go on, that is, by making sure that we take good care of taxpayers' money in Europe.
Between 1994 and 1999, our regions annually received an average of FF 15.4 billion but will receive only FF 14.7 billion between 2000 and 2006.
We are also concerned at the number of amendments which, in seeking to introduce greater flexibility, run the risk perhaps of obscuring responsibility for the management of the EQUAL initiative.
We therefore take the uncompromising view that we must maintain a resolute and consistent stability pact.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report.
For example, if we take what Mr Purvis and I would be thinking of, the malt whisky producing parts of the Highlands - a very peripheral part of Europe, very hard-pressed, a whole farming community as well as a distilling community dependent upon it - a general practice of taxing the alcohol in Scotch whisky, Dutch gin or Danish aquavit more than the alcohol in beer or the alcohol in wine, seems to me to be discriminatory and a discriminatory use of something which is admittedly within the prerogative of the Member States.
I find it unfortunate that national governments are not prepared to stand up for legally binding protection, despite having agreed internationally on OSPAR.
This is a big problem in my opinion.
Lastly, I will repeat for some who have entered the Chamber in the last few minutes, what I said at the outset of my remarks: that I will not be able to stay until the end of the debate, largely as a result of having assumed that the debate was taking place this morning and having fixed a meeting on the Balkans for this evening.
Second, the fight against fraud, mismanagement and nepotism must be strengthened, firstly by creating a culture in which they cannot thrive.
We therefore still have too much bureaucracy and intervention.
There are some who think that it is more in our interests to let bygones be bygones and make a fresh start. I do not, however, think we can make a fresh start if we do not tidy things up properly.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the planned liberalisation of the traditional national postal services raises the inevitable question as to what the postal services will consider their core business to be in the future. In other words, what will the postal services be prepared to do themselves, what will they want to do together in international cooperation and what will they no longer provide?
Why has no air quality test been done on this particular building since we were elected?
Moreover, several countries were mentioned whose problem is what to do with the public surplus.
In addition, we call upon the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference to take up debate on the establishment of a European Public Prosecutor' s Office for the protection of the financial interests of the Union, where possible on the basis of the now widely recognised study compiled by well-known experts, the so-called corpus juris, and of the feasibility studies that have subsequently appeared.
Angola does not enjoy rule of law. It is a repressive dictatorship.
I certainly appreciate the fact that Commissioner Patten is present, given his powers.
The EU and the ACP states will initiate the process aimed ultimately at defining, within a framework to be negotiated with each and every ACP country, the ways and means of repatriating immigrants illegally present on the territories of each party.
Our committee noted that innovative and effective action to combat and prevent crime at local level would require a whole array of measures including the incorporation of crime prevention in town planning, action to prevent juvenile delinquency, the reintegration of offenders, and models for effective local cooperation between the various parties involved, for example the police, the courts and social services.
For example, I know of one Member State that would like to use a large proportion of the entire programme for one component, namely refugees.
The words 'issued by' also need to be added after the words 'transferable securities' .
Accordingly, we welcome the related references in Chapter 7 of the European Commission' s proposed general guidelines for INTERREG.
The European Parliament has relayed their concerns and they have been heard.
We should, however, also bear in mind, Mr Papayannakis, that we cannot act in an area which will have such a big financial impact, armed only with the measures a presidency can propose in the space of six months.
This does not mean that I do not see the need for competitiveness, particularly as I myself am an entrepreneur in an Objective 1 Region, that is in Brandenburg in the Federal Republic of Germany, and am only too aware of the problems and concerns of small and medium-sized enterprises.
What exactly do you intend to liberalise?
This is what we should be concerned about here today.
It could have sunk anywhere.
The European Union voted against that motion.
Moreover, this proposal is liable to set off a chain reaction of totally unforeseen reforms.
Of course, there is a need for solidarity here.
I should like to take over the baton from the previous speaker.
In my opinion, it would be a sign of well-thought-out human resource management if the Commission were to share a number of these concerns, so as to ensure that a sensitive sector such as the postal service is liberalised with minimum impact on social conditions.
Mr President, today' s debate is devoted to the subject of the composition of decision-making bodies and changes to the decision-making system in Europe.
I am well aware of the sensitivity of these taxation and social protection issues.
I feel an amendment of this type is essential to prevent the sort of administrative unwieldiness which too often acts as a brake on the proper application of new conditions.
We therefore think that all the measures we have highlighted in terms of long-term strategies, regardless of the fact that we know that in the long term, some of the homeless may be dead, will help us to guarantee sustainable policies in the European Union.
Are there any rules or regulations that govern demonstrations within the building of this Parliament, outside the doors of the Hemicycle, to ensure that MEPs are free to come into this Hemicycle to discharge their mandate?
This must be regulated during the IGC.
It is really surprising that the Commission does not treat the revision of one of its common policies as a strategic objective for the coming years, in view of the reform which must take place in 2002.
It has one purpose only and that is precisely to maintain active networking between the individual LEADER groups.
There are a lot of people who will be watching further developments with great interest.
It is only by means of efficient instruments of control that we can arrive at a situation in which water is better managed and more carefully husbanded as a resource.
Well, we are not convinced that the studies currently available make it possible to implement this liberalisation right now and we are concerned because it is well known that liberalisation without impact studies would cause thousands of job losses, something we certainly do not want.
Let me just itemise them: the first point concerns the usefulness of the conclusions of this report in drawing up the priorities of the new regional policy, particularly for the negotiation of programming documents with the Member States.
That is why the Member States must either authorise more expenditure or rearrange their priorities in favour of modern mobile units so that our soldiers are protected by the best equipment. We are therefore delighted about the decisions which were taken last Monday in Sintra.
But it would have an overall remit, particularly, for instance, in requesting the authority to investigate particular areas requiring research.
Literature likewise plays an important part in the way it transmits our cultural heritage, increases mutual familiarity and preserves linguistic wealth and the diversity of tongues.
Mr President, in the limited time I have, I would like to express my support for the work carried out by all the rapporteurs and my agreement with many of the things which have been said here, in particular by Mr Jonckheer, who criticised the excessive gathering of information and the lack of transparency and socio-economic balance in the granting of aid.
It concerns the implications of the dam on access to fresh water in the region as a whole.
The objective of this proposal for a directive, which dates back to 1997, is to put an end to the fragmentation of previous water legislation and protect surface water, coastal waters, inland waters and groundwater.
Mr President, only a strengthened Europe can cope with enlargement.
With regard to Amendment No 6, we tabled a similar amendment in the negotiations in committee. I am a little surprised that you in the Group of the Party of European Socialists did not support it then.
That is something we would do well to recognise.
I have already appeared before the French Senate.
An essential condition in order to make good progress in the work in this respect is that the cooperation with Member States and the industry and with other partners be as fruitful as possible.
The President of Parliament has made us aware of the very limited time at our disposal, and my colleague, the Minister for Justice, and I therefore propose to reply objectively to all the questions put here at the parliamentary committee meeting which we shall be attending next week.
The decision to set up our own peace force is excellent.
Secondly, in my view, while the training that we are talking about should not be compulsory - after all there is no compulsory training on anything in the Commission - it should be essential. And, since it should be essential, I would hope that everybody would make certain that they had adequate gender training.
To this day, we in Europe remain in the privileged position of having the Gulf Stream, and the Gulf Stream still does its stuff.
My first question, Mr Solana, will be simple and more direct, perhaps, than those of my colleagues who have spoken before me.
My region of Nord-Pas-de-Calais will be particularly affected with French Hainaut losing the aid paid to Objective 1 regions.
Do not count on me to keep quiet, without doing or saying anything.
I am here today to listen to your opinions on the first step in this process of establishing a truly comprehensive Community system for the control of these diseases.
It is no coincidence that the last intervention is the only one that was completely opposed to further European integration. I say this without being the slightest bit ironical about the highly respectable position of Mr Berthu and his group, but it is no coincidence that the European Council' s decision is supported by those who are, after all, in Parliament because - and this is a highly respectable position - they are fighting against further integration.
The Nitrates Directive will not therefore be influenced by the present framework directive.
In the measures that have been adopted, I note that support for people who purify their water in their own homes has been omitted. I trust that this will be remedied in the future.
Amendment No 83 in Italian, which is the original version, states that 'il minore deve essere assistito da una persona di sua fiducia o da un perito o legale esterno' .
Can you not guarantee increasing the police presence to 5 000 officers and training local officers, who would naturally find it easier to clear up crimes than would officers from abroad?
In other words, the means which we employ to give women their rightful place within the political democracy should not lead to a system of gender apartheid.
The body charged with giving this advice based on sound scientific data is the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tuna.
I consider, however, that the mention of any real convergence of average regional development levels in Europe offers a somewhat over-simplified view of the situation and, unfortunately, this is often the message taken up in the press and in some speeches.
We need to see which concrete alternatives the Commission will adopt during the coming period and which initiatives it will take for the purpose of reaching agreements.
They are extremely highly qualified, of a calibre which it is difficult, if not impossible, to find in the individual national administrations because of the nature of the recruitment methods and criteria used.
Moreover, what is the real significance of financial ceilings if they are increased for every new action?
I would therefore urge the Council' s Presidency to set the promised debate in motion as quickly as possible and, above all, to conclude it in such a way that we all of us, including the people of Europe, realise what globalisation means and understand that a central element will have to be radical changes in the nature and the level of the development aid we provide.
A visit to Iraq and meetings with the Iraqi leaders and leading figures, particularly Mr Tarek Aziz, convinced me that there is actually a possibility of persuading the Iraqi Government to cooperate in enforcing Resolution 1284.
The Commission document expected to be ready in December 1999 was delayed until January, then February, and the initial thinking does not fill me with much optimism.
Our group would once again like to raise the issue of the practical monitoring of funds and emphasise the importance of better coordination of the INTERREG, TACIS, ISPA and PHARE programmes.
Seattle is a real source of concern in that context and we hope that the European Council in Nice will not be a wasted meeting.
First of all it concerns our report, which was adopted last year on the occasion of International Women' s Day in Strasbourg, which requests the Commission to submit to us a new proposal to amend the 1976 directive on the implementation of the principle of the equal treatment of men and women.
For how much longer is the Commission going to leave LEADER at the experimental stage instead of bringing it online as part of the general concept of mainstreaming of rural development?
Citizens of Europe expect the European institutions to be properly managed and they are right to do so.
My only regret is that in promoting this programme we do not have sufficient money to match our aspirations and ensure our ability to deliver.
Should flexibility of this kind result in there being inadequate rules in some countries then we should work towards greater harmonisation.
I also think it essential to step up the level of inspection that the charterer is responsible for, in this case, the oil company.
But we do reserve the right, when you propose to amend a directive or a regulation, to look at the whole regulation and not just the part which you have singled out.
It is very important that the people feel engaged in this process.
INTERREG has always been at the heart of a genuine Community policy for regional planning and a truly polycentric notion of our European territory.
Last week, and somewhat by chance, I witnessed, at Roissy airport, a scene of rare violence in which two young women, admittedly illegal immigrants, were being returned to Conakry.
INTERREG serves principally to fund Community schemes to develop SMEs, education and training, cultural exchanges, action to combat health problems, the protection and improvement of the environment, energy, transport and telecommunications networks.
These parts of Amendments Nos 49 and 87 cannot, therefore, be approved.
Mr Patten has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
So this is not a selling-out of the service and of its quality.
I would like to emphasise that, on that occasion too, the Commission voted unanimously, with one voice.
We hope that this important Cologne Council decision will become a reality.
In these circumstances, it is quite reasonable for this House to express concern today, asking an oral question which urges the Commission to show the definite and unquestionable feasibility studies which to date no one has seen.
These are serious allegations.
It would perhaps be less costly to make a fax or email available to isolated houses or villages.
If you are persuasive in your actions, we all reap the benefits.
In the context of globalisation and cultural openness which characterise the current situation, the European Union needs instruments that will allow it to strengthen its links and communication channels with neighbouring regions, particularly in Eastern and Southern Europe.
McCarthy report (A5-0026/2000)
An amendment was therefore made in the committee, but the Commission will now again take account of Parliament' s concern in the revised version and table the guidelines in that form.
This is a positive development in itself, especially given the pressures to terminate it and the fact that various Member States did not wish it to continue.
We are a group of unity in diversity.
. (ES) Mr President, I would like firstly to thank the Members, and especially the rapporteur, for the speed with which they have dealt with this issue.
(SV) My understanding of mainstreaming is, of course, that this should characterise everything we do.
As a Member for the Basque Country, I would like to express my total support for the implementation measures for fair competition in the market.
Anyone with any sense would like to see this framework directive used as a big stick for those pursuing policies who are now failing in some way.
However, I cannot accept the wording of the consideration as it stands.
When it is, then, still not clear to what extent the EP can participate in the decision-making processes, the question of legitimacy arises.
I know that you always take particular care to ensure that the Rules of Procedure are observed.
Lastly, there is the desire expressed both in the Commission document and Mr Decourrière' s report of using INTERREG for peace and reconstruction in the Balkans: I do not think that the Structural Funds should be used to repair the damage which the Americans inflicted on Serbia during bombardments which were as criminal as they were ineffectual.
In the same way, it is vital for Member States to fulfil their obligation to report to the Commission on the aid granted to their steel undertakings, as stipulated under Article 7 of the Steel Aid Code.
They can be the cheapest for a while only by means of a drop in quality for their customers and employees.
The Commission' s position is that the new proposal was delayed mainly owing to the internal problems of the Commission, of which I am sure Parliament is not totally unaware.
This issue, which has an impact on their everyday life, is a key issue as regards EU credibility.
Mr President, my starting point is the EQUAL report and equality between men and women, although I must admit that it is sometimes hard to talk about this issue, which has a feeling of déjà vu about it when you are my age, in any case.
This is politically impractical from an Irish perspective, as indeed it would be from the perspective of other EU Member States such as Portugal, Greece and Spain.
Thirdly, government investment means the gross fixed capital formation of the general government sector, as defined in ESA 95.
For some time, we have all agreed on this notion, but we must also clearly affirm that these objectives will not be achieved without enlargement, even if this comes at a price.
One example is water transfers.
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposal presented by the Commission, in accordance with its mandate, is a reasonable starting point for the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Indeed that is something extremely useful that we could have done in Russia throughout the 1990s to prevent the disintegration of that state.
As a result, speculative bubbles continually arise on the financial markets, causing growing economic instability which, in turn, jeopardises the entire economy.
With closed production circuits this is possible; anything else would water down the directive.
I would ask him to take this complaint into consideration and inform me, within the foreseeable future, of the steps the Commission will take to penalise this violation of the Schengen Treaty by the Belgian State, in accordance with Article 226 of the Treaty.
, chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. (IT) Mr President-in-Office, on listening to the various interventions, you have understood that in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and also among the leaders of Parliament' s political groups, the decision prevailed - although not without some disagreement - to put our faith in the Portuguese Presidency, instead of creating more difficulties by postponing the start of the Intergovernmental Conference.
It is therefore inconsistent to open accession negotiations with 13 countries while contemplating a minimal reform.
These proposals favour women especially.
We need a public debate on this.
In spite of an increase of 3 million in relation to the initial proposal, personally, once again I deplore the fact that the funds allocated do not match up to the ambitions expressed and that the concern to save money displayed by the Council in this situation is in rude contrast to its declarations in favour of the safety of the energy supply, job creation and environmental protection, challenges that are just as significant which we must face up to.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists requests that a Commission statement be included on its strategic objectives for the next five years and on the administrative reform of the Commission.
This reform must involve all the actors in European construction, with yourselves as MEPs at the forefront but also myself as a Commissioner, the Council ministers and national MPs. It must also involve the officials who work in our various institutions and who are committed to and motivated by this European construction.
In expecting consumers to bear half the cost of the recovery of end-of-life vehicles, as Amendment No 38 stipulates, even though the common position states that all recovery costs should be borne by the manufacturer, Parliament would, for the first time, not be acting as the defender of the rights of the consumers and citizens of Europe, it would be turning into mere sounding box for different lobbies.
So what was done at Amsterdam?
This is the theory behind it, anyway.
My only regret is that my own commitment to open the European Reconstruction Agency on Monday meant that I could not take part myself in that trip to the Middle East, even though, as I mentioned earlier in the day - which is another story - events conspired to maroon me at Munich airport rather than transport me to Thessaloniki.
What is new is that it will be well prepared and able to act quickly under effective common leadership and using modern equipment.
Many of the report' s conclusions, however, are cause for concern, at least for our group.
It has been imposed upon them that they cannot fish for about an 11 to 12 week period.
Sadly, in this case, he has not taken into account those who are affected and seems not to have considered those carrying out the restructuring.
I would therefore be very pleased if you could pass me these documents or I will come and get them from you later on.
We are also pleased that the situation in Timor is slowly moving in the right direction.
We at the European Parliament cannot be a credible counterpart to this reformed Commission as long as we do not search our hearts and put our own House in order as well.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Schreyer.
How do these operate within the European Parliament' s delegation to the ACP-EU' s Joint Assembly?
From the outside, it looks as if the Commission has something to hide.
In closing, I would like to point out that the structural policies as a whole require greater flexibility so that they can adapt to changing circumstances and thereby respond to the new challenges and opportunities of the new millennium, for which we all hope for the best.
Nevertheless, I have to say that, regrettably, we do not have the police resources - and this is connected with the Member States' contributions - to guarantee the follow-up action we proposed to the military action, that is to say the establishment of inter-ethnic coordination mechanisms guaranteeing adequate safety for the various communities, and, in particular, access to hospitals.
The next item is the report A5-0039/2000 by Mr Lechner, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on the initiative of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Republic of Finland, with a view to the adoption of a Council regulation on insolvency proceedings (9178/1999 - C5-0069/1999 - 1999/0806(CNS)).
I suggest Mr Evans goes back and reads the regulation.
Discussions within the European Union about the situation in China following the outcome of the dialogue rounds in 1999 have led the European Union to decide to express its concern about human rights violations in China more firmly; the same applies to the absence of concrete outcomes from the dialogue, while recognising the positive steps that China has made on the international stage.
I welcome the fact that Commissioner Monti wants to make progress in this area in the dialogue with the European Parliament, as he does in the dialogue with non-governmental organisations, consumer protection associations and the public.
Amendment No 4 is of a similar nature.
The only merit of this directive is that it looks to the future.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate Mrs Lienemann on the excellent work which she has presented and on her efforts in terms of overcoming the differences between us with regard to water.
Another area is EU involvement in the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime and its various protocols, and in the conventions being prepared in the framework of the Council of Europe, in particular on cyber crime.
We have passed 10 000 laws and as many amendments, and the applicant States have had 26 000 documents sent to them which, as debated by the Polish parliament, fill 140 000 sides of paper.
The next item is the report (A5-0033/2000), by Mr Andersson on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the communication from the Commission on a concerted strategy for modernising social protection [COM(1999) 347 - C5-0253/1999 - 1999/2182(COS)].
Amendments Nos 29, 31 and 41 water down the requirements concerning the dismantling of vehicles.
First, I believe that we can welcome the agreement between Israel and the Palestinian authorities.
I am sure they are aware that in mid-December we officially received the draft framework agreement with Parliament.
However, it is important, at least in Finland, as a sustainably used, slowly renewable energy source.
For all these reasons I voted in favour of the Langen report, and I now await the Commission' s response to our requests and demands.
This should serve as a guarantee for the receiving state that the employee or self-employed person will return to the sending state once the contract is completed and that they will be covered under insurance law in the event of illness or accident.
An active population of 60% is very low compared with that of Japan or the United States and we cannot match those countries' levels of production with such a low rate of employment.
In saying that, we are not seeking to protect monopolies whose pernicious effects we are already familiar with, but we wish to be certain that it is possible to combine the gradual evolution of the organisations with maintaining the key principles of public service.
Through cooperation, small, independent firms must be able to stand up to the large chains.
I can only warn you against consenting to this.
This disaster is both a transport and environmental one and is not confined to one area.
Mr President, comitology is a concept most people do not know how to handle and hardly anyone knows what it means.
We ask the Commission to look again at these proposals.
When implementation of the programme begins, I hope in particular that the scope it offers for literature and the translation of books can be utilised to the full. I believe and hope that, despite the assault on us all of the new technology, literature will maintain its status.
It is crucially important for this Intergovernmental Conference to score a hat trick; that of the power to act, democratic legitimacy and transparency.
The specific target of deriving European added value brings the regional cooperation up to European level while retaining the cooperation of the various regional operators.
And if we are to move forward, I suggest to you that the reforms on the personnel side, early evidence of change of culture, empowerment and motivation of staff have to happen sooner rather than later.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is music to my ears to hear you use the word 'citizen' so often.
These possibilities should be fully exploited.
In these cases, Parliament has fully taken account of the objections which the Commission had to the common position.
I believe that is something we are all desperately in need of, bearing in mind the results of the last European elections and of the level of turnout.
For example, I recently met representatives of the electronics industry who put forward suggestions - including practical ones - for improving our own proposal.
We believe therefore that conciliation will set a more realistic date.
First, financial management and control within the Commission must be improved.
Finally, I would say that in this matter we should learn a lesson from America, where hard work is still in fashion and success is an indication of ability and not the object of envy, as it often is here in Europe.
In a word, I shall believe your talk about human rights in Europe, fellow Members, when you acknowledge that your political opponents have the same rights as you allow yourselves.
Neither will it stop raising vital issues. For example, how much progress are you willing to make and what measures, legislative or otherwise, will you be taking to combat the scourge of trafficking in human beings, child pornography on the Internet, drugs, and organised crime?
In the interests of equality, there are grounds to either apply the Steel Aid Code strictly or modify the Code if the Commission wishes to authorise types of aid other than those legally acceptable at the moment.
Work is already under way with UNMIK to determine an appropriate contribution from the Commission to this enterprise.
I am aware that all the studies launched experienced difficulty in collecting adequate data.
The training of staff moving to the delegations in the different regions is another entry point.
It is all the work which is going to be carried out together, under your guidance particularly, in the course of these few months, which is extremely important.
They will be concentrating on the reinstallation of displaced people, on the further prevention of outbreaks of malaria, cholera and other communicable diseases, on the provision of supplementary food to malnourished and children at risk, on the provision of seeds and tools, on food security, on the rehabilitation of essential animal health structures and on the training of village livestock promoters.
Nor should we isolate the forces in Austria which wish to work for human rights.
Firstly, I agree with you entirely. Account will be taken of the information society; that was something which I too mentioned.
Everything which can be done will be useful. I am sure that you and I, Mr Berthu, can at least agree on this.
If those amendments were adopted which would considerably weaken the directive, this would be very detrimental, not only from an environmental point of view but also for the European Parliament' s credibility on environmental issues.
This does not involve the concerns about the future of the Atlantic Arc but rather the need to integrate the principle of maritime borders into strand A on cross-border cooperation.
It sets environmental parameters close to zero.
A directive on maritime safety has been in preparation for many years, but it is making very slow progress.
It is inconceivable that the European Parliament, which quite rightly pays so much attention to respecting human rights, should fail to adopt a clear stance on this.
As is also explained in the present communication, it is not therefore correct that one must first begin with some sort of cost-benefit analysis.
The EU on average is far from providing the pledged 0.7%.
We welcome that, and because we think it makes a sensible and proper provision, we will support the most liberal version which we understand to be consistent with the law.
We further maintain that we are waiting for this proper evaluation before any definitive decision, as stipulated in the directive and the revision of the 1997 directive.
We have built a Europe with an unstable market, not a Europe with principles, rights and politics.
It would be shameful to say the least if the European Parliament were to draw back from the professions the governments of the 14 Member States and the European Commission have been making concerning manufacturer responsibility and environmental protection!
The disagreement and the correspondence to which you refer, Commissioner, concern, first and foremost, another directive, namely the working time directive, but now we can foresee another letter of formal notice and further Treaty infringement proceedings looming because the Danish Government does not intend, or has expressly stated that it does not wish, to implement legislation and establish universally applicable agreements.
But these are competitive jobs, for this steelworks is now the number two tool steel manufacturer in the Federal Republic of Germany.
I will give you an example: the European Union was right to support the Grönitz steelworks in Brandenburg, although out of 5 000 jobs only 700 remained.
It means the reform of the United Nations and the international financial institutions, for which Europe has an enormous responsibility.
As far as the second proposal is concerned, the ideas of Amendments Nos 24, 25, 29, 30, 41 and some parts of 27, which contain sensible suggestions, can be adopted, again formulated appropriately.
Mr President, Commissioner, as a Member for the French Atlantic coast, for Vendée, I should first like to express the disgust of the people who are the victims of the Erika oil slick in the face of these disasters, caused not by a natural disaster such as the hurricane which has also just struck us, but by a crime.

We might ask ourselves, what kind of scientists will supply this documentation and what do they stand for?
First of all: who should pay?
We could say that, in this state of affairs, we have once again missed the opportunity to really strengthen sustainable urban development by ring-fencing ever-increasing urbanisation and, hence the destruction of the countryside.
I should just like to add that my intention is that the Commission should be able to present a proposal on the dumping of electrical and electronic waste before Easter.
On 15 March the committee published its first report concluding that: "It is becoming difficult to find anyone who has even the slightest sense of responsibility".
Who cannot see that in this case we are dealing with the twosome formed by London and Berlin, escorted by their respective henchmen, and who have no concept of their own diplomacy as being distinct from that of Washington, seeing themselves at best as bit-part players.
At times like this we are all aware of how much more we need to do to prevent disasters and to deal expeditiously with the disasters that we are not able to prevent.
I understand that Portugal is affected by this.
We have a very strong interest in seeing equality introduced to the Commission and in seeing the necessary basis for decision making secured so that the Commissioner can implement her views on equality.
These are questions which we should all be asking, but the forum for putting these questions is the United Nations.
The operation of the Community Support Framework is ruled by a centralising hand and indeed at this time we are experiencing state, government and party delirium as regards the European Union' s funding.
Here, then, I want to point out that international competition is tough and, if we are to overcome it positively, we must together envision and share a long-term strategy.
All the macroeconomic models we are working on show that, over the last decade, more than one third of the convergence achieved in the regions whose development is lagging behind would not have taken place without the Structural Funds.
They have quite failed to grasp the new conditions created in the area; the new and positive conditions which have been created, in very many cases on Greece' s initiative.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to add my voice to all those who have already spoken in order to draw this House' s attention - which was not really necessary, but it had to be done - to the appalling tragedy unfolding in Mozambique. I have some figures here, which I believe are the most up-to-date ones available.
We vote against this report, because by allowing trans-border interception of telecommunication and reversing the burden of proof, the Convention will create the legal ground for large scale bugging operations in the EU.
I would also like to recognise the reasonable and flexible action of the Council.
And our current EU mantra is AFSJ: Area for Freedom, Security and Justice.
This is one such case and discussions are under way between the Danish Government and the Commission in order to find the best possible solution to the matter, to the benefit of the workers who meet the requirements and who, as things stand, have a right to this pension.
The chosen threshold of 50 projects seems too low.
The Kosovo problem is well-known and the international community is present there on a massive scale.
Agreement on burden sharing must therefore be at the top of the agenda.
I can only hope that Mr Nielsen will be successful in the forthcoming discussions within the Commission.
Though we have a high respect for the work of national competition authorities and so on, it is evident that we will watch very carefully how EC law is applied by national authorities and courts.
If the lamented lack of coherence should happen to have something to do with this point, then I am bound to say that this regulation is a legal framework and nothing more than that.
To use a figure of speech, cappuccino is not always good for us.
The same day, I conveyed my own and the European Parliament' s deepest sympathy and sincere condolences to the victims' families.
Women are venturing into the labour market in ever greater numbers.
VOTE
You might have run out of political arguments but that does not give you the right to use those who were murdered as cheap propaganda.
On 1 January 1995, the Council went back on the decision to increase the number of judges laid down in Article 17 of the Accession Treaty of 24 June 1994.
It is an imperative.
Can I start by wishing the Commissioner a very happy St David' s Day.
As I said, their purpose and the timetable for implementing them are political in character.
In order to give a precise answer to your question, Mr Ford, I must remind you that in order for the mechanism established by Article 7.1 of the Treaty on European Union to be applied, there must be proof of the existence and I quote, of a "serious and persistent breach by a Member State of the principles mentioned in Article 6."
Has any thought been given to the matter?
The greater the trust consumers have in investment market operations, the more consumers will be prepared to invest on the open market.
The next item is the Commission statement on Reforming the European Commission.
The attacks against Austria' s new government and the attempts to exert political influence in a Member State are an insult to the Austrian people.
As regards rural development, which a number of you brought up, particularly Mrs Redondo Jiménez, the guidelines are in line with the twofold objective mentioned by your rapporteur: a strong agricultural sector linked with increased competitiveness in rural areas, but also protection of the environment and Europe' s rural heritage.
This is a crucial goal.
Up until the Amsterdam Treaty, there were about 20 variations of these committee procedures, which created neither clarity in the implementation of legislation nor transparency for the citizens.
Secondly, it dumps huge costs on the European motor industry which would damage competitiveness and damage employment.
The rigid and unsuccessful monetarism of the Stability Pact must be re-examined and discarded so that we might have a uniform policy which has prosperity as its primary objective.
It seems to me desirable for an authority of this type to be centrally located.
I conclude by saying, on behalf of all my Conservative colleagues - and we are the second largest national delegation in this Parliament - that we pledge our full support to the Commission and to Mr Prodi in achieving this historic task.
Member States cannot be allowed to proclaim European solidarity in public while trying to undermine the single market in private.
The Helsinki Summit under the Finnish presidency took place a little over two months ago.
Crucially, reforms must not be limited to the Commission.
Please let this be the last disaster of its type and let us learn all possible lessons from this.
I also feel there are grounds for ensuring, in particular, that the financial channels of States or local authorities are not behind the delays in payment which may have caused some LAGs to become bankrupt under LEADER II.
Of course, we are not in a position to dictate anything in terms of content, but I would insist on Parliament retaining the rights accorded it under Maastricht and Amsterdam, and even extending them.
In order to make these reforms, however, and in order to make progress with the 2001 legislative programme, we must be very sure, not only of the strengths of the reformer himself, but also of the opinions of others.
Indeed, for some 'forestry' districts, which have lost 20% of their trees, this represents a huge loss.
The activities of the entire Union must be reduced to core areas of policy.
The European Union was founded through the efforts of just a few countries, and you see how we are today.
Thank you, Mr van Velzen.
I can vouch that I have already received significant interest in the ALTENER programme from my own constituency of Leinster, a significant portion of which falls within Ireland' s only Objective I region.
Unfortunately, in my case, he did not provide what I would call a satisfactory answer.
That is a question of solidarity and progress.
As regards the second treaty on performances and phonograms, it must be stressed that for the first time an international treaty signed by the Community as well recognises exclusive rights for performers, interpreters and artists for reproduction, distribution and rental to the public, and the right to fair remuneration for radio broadcasts.
I, for my part, have focused on the position of the handicapped and the elderly within the framework of the programme, and I have to say that their position could well have been overlooked altogether if it had not been for the European Parliament devoting special attention to them.
It is therefore not sufficient to merely reproduce the legislation in force in other countries.
The way to a European monopolies commission must be kept clear, something that will certainly form a subject for future discussion.
I also welcome the White Paper.
That is the level of sophistication and provision I would like to see.
However, as the rapporteur pointed out, such aid is occasionally essential and may, in addition to enabling the survival of a specific firm, make it possible to contribute to sustainable development (Article 6 of the Treaty), services of general economic interest (Article 16) and economic and social cohesion (Article 158).
In future too, there will be a need to invest heavily in research into the use of renewable energy sources.
Madam President, the debate on a tax on short-term financial actions is not a new one.
Following a request to this effect, which I have received from a number of political groups, and following the meeting of the Conference of Presidents which has just been held, I propose that we add to the agenda a one and a half hour debate on a topical and urgent subject of major importance, pursuant to Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure, on the subject of the European Union' s reaction with regard to the talks in Austria on forming a government.
It is for all our remote and island communities, no matter where in the European Union they are situated, and not just for the people of Scotland, that I ask you to preserve the vital lifeline that their postal services provide.
I too agree that Amendments 7 to 13 are unfortunate, indeed Amendment 13 would not merely negate the intended effects of the proposal but actually would make the situation even more difficult than under current rules.
Madam President, the work of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly was coloured in 1999 by growing concern about the sustainability of the cooperation models derived from the Lomé Conventions.
In order to remove these causes, one has to look at what is happening in the countries in question.
I hope that the Chamber will be just as committed this time.
It cannot create jobs just by government spending.
I will save a few seconds because I wanted to propose to the Council that we continue the debate at the next meeting of the Committee on Citizens' Rights and Freedoms, Justice and Home Affairs.
I will therefore judge you on your deeds.
An area of special concern is the harassment of journalists, including temporary detention of members of the so-called independent press.
I do not believe that the state of stocks and the current scandalous system of discards are a good example of the policy' s effectiveness which must therefore, in my opinion, be significantly improved.
This is the time when we should have expressed our opinion of the Commission proposal to put an end to the derogations.
There are four more sister ships in service at present.
Social growth has occurred only in those areas where the tourist market has given rise to the development of all the activities required to meet the needs of visiting tourists, thus creating an entire productive system.
However, turning to the substance, I should like to ask the Commissioner to bear in mind the following: that for all national and regional programmes, Greece is regarded as a region which expresses itself - at the level of its partnership relations with the European Union - via its central administration, its central government.
Will a free Palestine be a truly democratic state and, therefore, reliable as a partner in peace?
As regards the specific guidelines governing the initiative, they are broadly defined to give scope for local and regional diversity.
As far as I am concerned, that means that fundamental core provisions in this proposed regulation must not be relegated yet again to the Annex but included in the body of the proposed regulation because we here in Parliament want to and will assume joint responsibility here.
The key problem areas at the moment include the difficulties of redeployment, as well as the transfer of territories.
The less precise, Mr van Hulten, we are in our resolutions, the more room it gives the Commission and your former colleagues in the Council to do what they like.
Why, for example, was the proposal to increase Europe' s active population to 75% of the total population removed, when we currently have levels of around 60%?
In common with Mrs McCarthy, I have to note that the number of areas has been drastically reduced.
I conclude, Mr President, by affirming that this progress is indeed difficult, fragile, and uncertain and it calls for constant vigilance on our part during the various stages of close and precise inspection that have long been advocated.
We have that opportunity right now. Let us grasp it.
So much for the political aspect.
The cast is always the same.
We need to cooperate with the Council too.
Mr President, I thank the Commissioner for his statement.
We must concern ourselves with the reasons for this and try to deal with the reasons behind such results.
Let me make clear to the honourable Member what the position is.
Our experience with that pilot project in Bilbao led us to four conclusions: firstly, that Europe must maintain an urban policy and therefore, far from reducing the EUR 900 million for the last five year period to EUR 700 million for this five year period, the funding of this project should be increased. This should be done, for example - and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has proposed this - by reinvesting, in URBAN projects, that portion of the Structural Funds which each Member State has not spent within the time scales laid down for that purpose.
The Member States, i.e. the national governments, have primary responsibility for setting up the joint agencies, submitting proposals, selecting the proposals which the programmes will implement and carrying out primary control.
No soldier can, of course, be despatched without the approval of the relevant national parliament.
Monsieur Bolkestein, je veux vous dire quelque chose!
Some areas are becoming drier, whilst many are becoming wetter.
If we open this curtain, then we will find that there is a partition wall behind it which cannot just be removed straight away.
I know that this is an extremely delicate issue, but we should all be questioning the logic behind this resolution and its chances of being implemented.
Secondly, the problem of derivatives is one which has created the most divisions, both within my Group and between the groups.
And I believe that it is our responsibility, in an ever more rapidly moving economy, where everyone must have a real opportunity, to give people the chance of running a commercial enterprise, and a second and a third chance, if necessary.
Firstly, before the next General Affairs Council which will take place this month, we shall be able to define precisely the detailed and specific meaning of the Headline Goal, bearing in mind the views that the military planners may consider appropriate.
Mr President, I do not want to be misunderstood - I sincerely hope this does not happen - and I should therefore like to start by saying that I am, of course, in favour of combating fraud and firmly support the appropriate, necessary reforms.
During the trialogue held on 6 October 1999 in Strasbourg, the Presidents of the European Parliament and the Commission approved the idea of concluding this agreement soon.
I have therefore asked the European Commission to produce a publication which lists all the measures of the common fisheries policy aimed at conserving and protecting resources. This will serve to publicise our protectionist actions.
Of course I, in no way, agree with the publicised statements of this right-wing populist and fully condemn xenophobia and any downplaying of the Hitler regime.
Mr President of the Commission, may I say to you on behalf of my group that we very much support the point of departure, the core of the analysis and the strategy that you bring to this House today: that is that the stakes now are irrefutably political.
The Commission will make every effort to define the legislative framework, both through general provisions and through its decision-making practice.
In reply to the question whether the Commission considers that the framework decision has an adequate legal basis under the Treaty, the Commission believes that the right basis is being applied here.
The key factor in this text as it has been amended, is the call for a Charter of Fundamental Rights to be incorporated into the treaties.
Nonetheless, I must assure you that the Commission will make every effort to include an analysis of this type in the second report on cohesion which, no doubt, will respond better to these concerns.
To set my fellow Members' minds at ease and to reassure them, I have tabled an amendment to the resolution in which we simply take note of the fact that the Commission, in its communication, undertakes to make significant efforts to increase women' s participation in Community research programmes, which is, after all, a praiseworthy goal.
There will be major problems with enforcing this rule at present, especially with smaller companies, as these cannot afford safety advisors.
I wanted to ask the Commissioner whether it is true that soldiers of the NATO armed forces now stationed in that region undergo special controls against nuclear radiation and that the same measures are not applied to civilians living in the area?
I would now like to move on to Lord Inglewood' s remark.
The business of the European Commission is very little about spending money.
This marks the beginning of the treaty-based stabilising process for the countries of the former Yugoslavia.
With global markets, we need global employment laws and global subsidies.
You have excellent Commissioners for both issues in Mrs Palacio and Mr Barnier, yet still you attach too little importance to these areas.
Women always have a different viewpoint from men. This serves to enrich and complete the picture of the best solutions to the problems in daily life which people like us, who are dedicated to active politics, undertake to solve.
First of all, Mr Andrews, you must understand that I do not agree with your interpretation of my colleague' s speech during the meeting of the Committee on Development. There is no contradiction between our two positions, quite the opposite.
Yugoslavia is just as much a weak link in the stability process and, as such, a threat to Macedonia' s stability.
Can I perhaps also turn to Mr Patten as well and ask, in terms of the conflict prevention work we are going to be doing, to what extent will it be possible for us to look at long-term conflict-causing situations such as environmental degradation and shortage of water and then incorporate them into mainstream EU policies, particularly in development, because there is no point trying to rapidly respond to something we have had years to put right.
We are voting against this report on behalf of the development of public services, in memory of the victims of the Paddington rail disaster, killed not by fate but by an absurd determination to have competition where there should instead be regulations.
I shall also reject those amendments which have been tabled by the Technical Group of Independent Members, because I do not think that these add anything to the report.
Mr President, I would very much just like to add to two particular points.
So, Member States, we think that it is time that common foreign and security policy had a bridge between Council conclusions, between yards of communiqués and what we can actually deliver on the ground and I think that if we can achieve that the job of the High Representative will have been made a lot easier and the conditions of life for an awful lot of people around the world will have been made a lot better.
I have two major concerns, however, about the development partnerships.
I very much welcome the position taken by the Italian Radicals; and I say this while making a clear historic and material distinction between Italian liberals and Austrian liberals.
The agreement complements the Berne Convention in regard to literary works.
(The Minutes were approved)
Nor is it a mere luxury.
We shall now proceed to the vote.1
Surely this must be the ultimate goal.
Postal services must continue to be public services.
- Additionality is a major issue too in Wales, which I represent.
I assume that, although the exact number of businesspeople included in this figure is not known, their number will most definitely not be low.
Therefore I am putting forward three amendments.
For there are considerably more than two million people employed in this sector.
Moreover, the manufacturers will not be financially accountable until 2006, when a good number of the existing vehicles will no longer be on the market.
If the House agrees, I shall do as Mr Evans has suggested.
Parliament knows how important we all consider the question of transparency in competition policy, as I did right from the moment I had my hearing, on 1 September, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
.
I congratulate Mr Hudghton and fully support his report and would urge the honourable Members of Parliament to do likewise.
In this respect, we support Libya' s participation, provided that it recognises human rights, renounces support for terrorists and fully supports the peace process.
I intended to ask the presidency if there really is an argument for saying that we should not pay tax in our own countries just as other people do.
We must take to the streets of Europe to protest against these alliances with extremists which are a disgrace to Europe and which lead our youth astray.
We make our judgements from reports like this and the missions we send to check on things like this.
I therefore approve of the continuation of the initiative because, as I was saying, it emphasises the innovative development strategies and because it is more ambitious, even though there is still the need to make the criteria by which areas qualify as rural more flexible so as not to penalise rural areas with high or low population densities.
I say they have a right to solidarity.
Mr President, Mr Katiforis' passion and conviction have prevented him from carrying out the usual task of a rapporteur in plenary which is to defend his report.
In fact, the financial protocols cannot go ahead without a vote in Parliament.
This initiative should give the countryside new impetus to develop and test new and original ideas, ideas which it is then intended should at a later stage be incorporated in the general programmes as models.
(PT) The Commission intends to use the Community initiative EQUAL to replace the Community EMPLOYMENT and ADAPT initiatives and various subprogrammes in these areas, such as NOW, on new opportunities for women, HORIZON, for disabled persons, YOUTHSTART, for promoting the labour market integration of young people, and INTEGRA, for groups threatened with exclusion. Unfortunately, this involves a significant reduction in appropriations.
For ten years you represented democratic Czechoslovakia and, later, the Czech Republic, as its president.
There can also be no doubt that bluefin tuna is of enormous environmental and financial significance.
Madam President, this brings me to the end of my speech.
We trusted this Commission, from the outset, to begin work on all issues relating to greater equality for men and women.
During the course of our work on this report it became clear that there are persistent problems in the spending areas under the control of our budget.
Let us remember that for half a century, Europe has provided us with peace, security and freedom and a united Europe has also contributed to giving us a period of unprecedented prosperity.
Especially in the southern Member States, the tourist industry is a major source of income.
So that is at least a step forward.
With the aim of working out a strategy, it is vital to have a reading of these facts which harmonious and as strict as possible, so that we truly make tourism capable of creating jobs.
Mr President, since the start of the Yugoslav wars, the Republic of Macedonia - I prefer to use this abbreviation - has behaved as a constructive peace-keeper.
The next item is the debate on the oral question (B5-0010/2000) tabled by Mr Hatzidakis, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, to the Commission, on European postal services.
I have had a little to do with this too.
On the other hand, despite his declarations on humanity and peace, it is clear from what Mr Solana has told us that, according to the Helsinki resolutions, we intend to set up a terrorist army, starting with 60 000 men, in order to strike at anyone who raises their head above the parapet.
It is clear that the activities that have taken place there are in clear breach of EU directives.
The next item is the joint debate on:
The Finnish Presidency only listened to minimalist governments and, unfortunately, turned a deaf ear to this Parliament.
First, perhaps, I should say something on the question of the legal base.
I also hope that the vote will not be a washout and that will depend on what I see as two quite fundamental points.
As you all know, this convention was the result of many years of discussion, which was often difficult and often laborious, and that for this very reason, it represents a compromise between unitary and territorial principles, that is to say, the structural principles of the different legal insolvency proceedings in each of our Member States.
But there has been nothing for a year.
We have a long way to go before we are perfect ourselves.
This human diversity is our main sources of wealth, and this is the reason why it is my duty to track down and to condemn anything which may be harmful to it, wherever it may exist.
Mr Gil-Robles told me that, when talking with the Acting President and the Foreign Affairs Minister last night, the Russian authorities had agreed to allow Council of Europe representatives to be involved in the humanitarian mission which is in Grozny at the moment and which is being directed by the Russian authorities. The latter were also in negotiation with the Chairman-in-Office of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe to allow OSCE representatives to be involved as well, if feasible.
If such implementing measures are referred back, it should be to both branches, not to one branch alone.
This is something that the EU can rightly be proud of, and I think we should shout it from the rooftops more often.
We have four very straightforward arguments which we feel justify our choice.
When we come to pay, we want to know what the others are paying.
We share the view that its development is a factor for stability in the region, we approve the terms of the negotiating mandate as proposed, emphasising that what is involved is a bilateral agreement with the European Union, and we agree with the rapporteur when he stresses that this is the first concrete application of an integrated long term strategy for south-east Europe, and that the issue is how the Balkans can be structured in the long term in order to guarantee peace and stability.
So far, some Balkan countries have received aid from the PHARE and Obnova programmes, while others have not.
(Parliament approved the joint text)
The legislation should also have written into it the fact that the international conventions, such as the OSPAR Convention must be respected.
Mr President, I understand that I have to do this very quickly.
Will the Structural Funds also finance the large-scale energy transmission networks?
Progress is slow due to the tense relations between the ethnic groups of this divided city.
Is there a Member who wishes to speak on behalf of the PPE in favour of this proposal?
The committee is also calling for an end to discharges or leaks of dangerous substances by 2020, the final objective being to achieve zero input by 2020.
Mr Napolitano, the chairman, and many other members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and even more MEPs in this House know that, on behalf of the Commission, I will be available to tell you how things are going as they happen throughout these negotiations, in a spirit of transparency.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Radicals and I would like to say to the President of the Council that he has seen what Parliament' s opinion is.
However, the new commitment included some minor changes which, in turn, led to a further complaint.
This will be an ongoing process which I see as a kind of continued quality control effort and I invite Parliament to participate in this ongoing effort to improve the coherence of what we are doing.
It is, however, perfectly correct that, when it comes, for example, to chemicals, we must ensure that we obtain a reversed burden of proof.
We must improve information on all of the world' s ships, but provision has already been made for this. We must also target those responsible and take a tougher line with them.
Now we can focus on the future, on the challenges awaiting the Union and on the programme for 2000-2005, the contents of which we have outlined to you over the past few weeks.
Mr President of the Commission, you have represented and defended the European Parliament time and again over recent weeks.
If you look carefully, this proposed tax on capital is just one of several instruments aimed at forcing international investors to behave responsibly on the financial markets.
However, the people are fighting back, as demonstrated by their reaction during the incredible Seattle Summit. The leaders of the world, headed unfortunately by the European Commission, rushed forward submissively, hoping that their docility at the feet of the master of the world, Mr Clinton, would be enough to ensure them the scraps from the table.
In addition, we must consider whether it is right and proper - and we have already had cases in which MEPs, not to mention groups, lodged a complaint against the European Parliament - for the Court of First Instance to be responsible for such cases, when in fact matters of a constitutional nature are affected and it makes more sense for such matters to be brought before the Court of Justice than before the Court of First Instance.
It should be pointed out that this can only be done within the Council' s scope for action.
Therefore, the agreement contains explicit provisions on urgent procedure, including possible action by the committee responsible.
It is oil and diamonds which are financing the continuation of the war which, as has been said, is terrible. It has displaced millions of people and caused them to go hungry.
It is therefore only logical that we make provision for genetically modified feedingstuff additives in this case, just as we have in regulations already passed in other areas, such as forest reproductive material, to mention just one example.
I regard that as a very unsatisfactory state of affairs.
Before giving the floor again to the President of the Commission, I must tell you that I have received, pursuant to Rule 37, seven motions for resolutions to conclude the debate.
As Mr von Wogau said at the start of the debate, at the end of the day competition is not an abstract concept: it is in the public interest and forms the basis of the social market economy.
Three annual crops of Moroccan and African workers support 100 000 people and manage to bring in an annual turnover of nearly EUR 2 million; and yet 60% of them have no running water in a region where, as we know, the temperature may reach 40 degrees in summer.
The Commission has proposed harmonising the authorisation procedure so that substances licensed before 1988 are put on an equal footing with substances authorised now.
But above all, the human rights policy is too fragmented.
In addition, I do not believe that paragraph 10 fully reflects the opinion of the Court of Auditors in 1997.
I spoke last week at the extremely interesting session that was organised between members of the NATO parliamentary assembly and Members of this Parliament.
Over the past 25 years, no less than 25 000 people have been forced to move and this must stop.
We just need a bit more time to work out the details on the asylum question and I would therefore request that the vote be postponed from this morning.
But I have a quite different question for the Council.
I should really like to stress the excellent role which Mr Moratinos' special mission has played in the region and the funding which we have provided there, Commissioner Patten.
However, in order to give this new approach some chance of success, the Commission should have opted for a less complicated proposal, a more simple and direct one, involving the NGOs from the outset, so that partnerships could develop in a balanced way.
In this respect, it must be stressed that it is the expenditure financed by the Structural Funds which must be additional.
Increased competition and newly established organisations should be able to provide significant benefits in terms of welfare, including within the spheres of education, health care and social services.
. (FR) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioners and members of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I was given the task of drawing up the European Parliament' s report on the Community Initiative Programme INTERREG III.
A small segment of our market has been taken over by private operators.
There should be no initial delay to allow new evaluation criteria to be developed before the measures are implemented.
However, I would just like to add the following.
Like other Arab countries before them, the Syrians chose the Americans to sponsor the negotiations.
Anyone who feeds on prejudice towards foreigners and ethnic minorities and gives succour to these prejudices, whose programme features parochialism and anti-liberalism, who displays loutish behaviour and arrogance in their international relations, and who has never yet distanced themselves clearly and unequivocally from National Socialism, has neither the intention nor inclination to integrate!
Mr President, our group welcomes the horizontal thrust of the EQUAL initiative so that, if you are a British Muslim physically disabled in some way you no longer have to chose which category of discrimination you belong to as a target group: you can use your expertise and experience to solve problems, rather than being defined as the problem.
The aim of regulations is to define the reciprocal rights and duties of States or citizens or those applicable in the relationship between citizens and government.
While urban renewal in our cities is very important we must always strike a balance in our policies between promoting rural development and improving the lives of city dwellers.
Transport of dangerous goods by road
In that case, I am rather concerned, because the idea was really that a cost-benefit analysis should not be used as a tool for deciding whether the precautionary principle should be introduced. Instead, the precautionary principle should come first.
In this context, let me applaud the important steps that the Palestinian authority has recently taken to improve budgetary transparency.
There is very little in the way of appropriations to meet these targets, however.
Indeed, expansion, globalisation, a sharp increase in the ageing population, individualisation and changes in family situations render such reorganisation inevitable.
Finally, the Socialist Group agrees with activity-based budgeting and with responsibilisation and you will be judged, as Mr Prodi says, by your actions, not your words.
This is difficult to reconcile with the needs of an effective management system.
Mr President, I would like to point out that this aspiration on the part of the European Parliament is not an aspiration to gain benefits for the European Parliament itself.
The Goodyear workers are putting up a magnificent fight, in the knowledge that they are defending not only their own interests but the interests of the Goodyear workers in the different European countries as well, and there are many of them: France, Germany, the United Kingdom, Poland, Luxembourg and Slovenia.
Thirdly, we wish to achieve the recycling objectives specified in the present directive.
Madam President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I want to thank you for your statement last Tuesday and for your words today in memory of Fernando Buesa Blanco.
My question, Commissioner Byrne is this: the UN conference in Montreal decided that genetically-modified organisms must be labelled for international trade.
I believe we have made considerable progress since we are now talking about the modernisation of social protection.
I have taken note of your words; this is something which we all feel very deeply.
Is this House going to let its agenda be determined by scurrilous reports on a programme which bases its news items on lies, or is it going to get down to serious work and address the challenges facing Europe?
It could be maintained that in overall terms the legislation proposed is better than nothing, but to the Commission it nevertheless appeared insufficient and far from reassuring.
The new activity-based management system, that the President just mentioned, will link political priorities to the availability of resources and consequently to the budget for the first time.
This has always been a subject about which I personally have felt extremely strongly, I have always voted against the death penalty.
But that has not dismissed us from the task of drawing up an extensive and complicated directive which will require great care in its implementation from the executive bodies.
The new definition in Amendment No 72 is, however, too strict and cannot be applied for this purpose.
Lastly I would like to ask the Commissioner a specific question: Do you consider it necessary to change the implementing regulations for the Structural Funds or do you consider the current distribution criteria to be acceptable?
In the limited time available for this statement, it is obviously impossible to go into the full details of our proposals.
That is very welcome and I also believe that our village governance programme should help to promote democracy at grassroots level.
In short, to give priority to older sub-standard ships over ships which meet all quality requirements.
The issue of the financial envelope was staunchly defended by Parliament in the face of the Council' s very meagre opening offer.
I think we should take a more positive approach here.
Will Syria fully accept Israel' s existence and introduce democracy and the rule of law?
It is of course a prerequisite, however, that there be financial resources and means of actually crossing the borders physically if you have a disability.
This is a good step forward, but as the Commission and the Fisheries Committee continually point out, much improvement is needed in the control programmes of all Member States.
You comment that these guidelines were adopted at too late a date, stressing, particularly your rapporteur, the risk that the previous programmes will be interrupted.
Subject: Working time directive Can the Commission say what action it proposes taking to ensure a level of protection, equivalent to that provided by the 1993 working time directive, for non-consultant hospital doctors, who were excluded from that directive and again from the proposal for a Council amending directive (COM(98)0662-C4-0715/98 - 98/0318(SYN))?
It was a chance to reiterate that our original and exemplary mode of cooperation with the southern countries should be developed and strengthened.
I would welcome an assurance from you that you will order an investigation to ensure that the two Members who were named in this particular BBC interview are not running their companies from this Parliament or from parliamentary offices, because that would be a very serious matter indeed.
As Mr Nielson said, this is a fine example to those countries and regions aspiring to greater prosperity.
- (DE) I have just voted against the motion for a resolution on the situation in Austria in view of a possible government being formed between the ÖVP and the FPÖ.
(Parliament rejected the proposal) President.
I am delighted that reason and generosity triumphed over the difficulties, opening new prospects for this partnership.
Unfortunately, the European Commission has already moved ahead with its guidelines and Parliament' s position on the programmes for 2000-2006 does not carry much weight.
Commissioners should not be considered senior officials but rather politicians in office.
I think this policy has been reasonably successful in Finland, as testified by the present public system.
Unfortunately this is only true for part of the money, that is only for the borders within the EU.
Subject: Implications for human rights of the construction of the Ilisu Dam in Turkey Given that Turkey has recently been granted applicant country status, what is the Commission's view of the implications for human rights of the construction of the Ilisu Dam, given the massive displacement of the Kurdish and the other people of the region that will result?
That brings us back to the more general need to approximate criminal law called for by the European Council in Tampere.
The requirement to lodge applications in Brussels will be dropped; in other words, the Commission will be completely in the dark in future.
On East Timor, Mr Da Costa, from the Timorese National Resistance Council, gave a very moving address indicating that East Timor would also like to join the ACP when it becomes a state with a government.
The economy has to be strong for us to be able to attend to the problems of our fellow-citizens and our environment.
I believe that it is important to point out one thing: expenditure effected under LEADER+ is eligible from the time that the Commission programme starts running.
How long will you continue to monitor the effects of these weapons?
Here in the European Parliament, as in many other institutions, we have watched this situation with concern and were beside ourselves when we heard what had happened. This is because we felt the problem to be ours, as it was.
Allow me also to begin by commenting on and responding to a couple of the most important arguments in this debate.
Thirdly, we denounce the extreme nature of an attack which, by being perpetrated against an elected representative of the people, not only violated human dignity and human rights but also showed absolute contempt for the will of these people.
Creating a functioning urban environment in terms of social policy requires a policy of long-term job creation, action to combat poverty, measures to assist low-income groups and old people, facilities for children, racial and ethnic integration, better opportunities for participation, a targeted public health policy including measures to prevent drug abuse and concerted crime prevention measures.
When we had the earthquake in Greece, which was a big disaster, the Community had no instrument with which to offer its sympathy or solidarity to the Greeks.
Like the honourable Member I have read the autobiography of the Dalai Lama.
Security considerations have prevented Tajikistan from benefiting fully from TACIS but a rehabilitation programme of EUR 7.2 million has been in place in 1998 and 1999.
That is an area that European citizens will respond to and will be happy about.
I would like to finish off by making a general comment on INTERREG.
What is even more satisfactory is that this was one of our main demands in our follow-up report on the mad cow crisis.
However, I would prefer, Madam President, to stop at this point and allow questions to be asked so that I have time to answer them.
The figures will be more reliable and more comparable and I think the concerns some Members have raised about compliance with the stability pact can be better addressed.
We, the Green Group, by and large support the common position.
The European Union contributes 75% of the Peace and Reconciliation programme.
I think that this is something which we should continually bear in mind so that we do not lose sight of it in our various policies.
And then there is my standing question to you Mr Byrne, a question you certainly already know and which will not surprise you. What about the BSE test?
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party is in favour of increasing this amount to EUR 850 million.
Madam President, I should simply like to ask Mr Wurtz to take a second look at what this is about.
I would particularly like to congratulate Mrs Stenzel, because her effort to reach agreement on the EQUAL initiative has proved exceptionally difficult and complex, both because some of the committees involved view the issue in a different light and because it is a very sensitive political issue.
I therefore support the Commission' s proposed changes and I am calling for their urgent adoption and implementation.
Madam President, the presentation of the Prodi Commission' s political programme for the whole legislature was initially a proposal by the Group of the Party of European Socialists which was unanimously approved by the Conference of Presidents in September and which was also explicitly accepted by President Prodi, who reiterated his commitment in his inaugural speech.
But what do these sanctions mean?
You will notice in the White Paper that we have not been specific about the makeup of that board.
I particularly remember the time when I was Minister for the Environment in my own country. The second principle is that of equal opportunities, particularly for men and women, as well as the European strategy for employment and the context of economic and monetary Union.
No-one would benefit from this situation.
We have had all that before but some people in this Parliament are young and do not seem to understand how small the financial resources of the European Union are and that 80% of these resources are spent by the Member States.
The timetable set in the report of 2020 is unrealistic and impracticable, but the timetable set by the Council of 2034 is too far in the distance.
Senior citizens are always on holiday, all year round, from 1 January through to 31 December because they do not work and do not have just one month off during the year.
A compromise solution was therefore reached in order to achieve a balance between the need to reduce the biological risks, that is the species of fish being affected, and the socio-economic problems caused by fishing limits. This was achieved by fixing the TAC at an intermediate level of 16 000 tonnes instead of the 33 000 set in 1999.
In particular, the Commission can accept in full Amendments Nos 6, 16, 21, 28, 31, 33, 34, 44, 45, 46, 48, 52, 53, 65, 67, 68, 75, 76, 78, 80, 84, 85, 88 and 102.
But who defines these tasks?
I only need to mention the case of Directives 79/409 and 92/43.
At the moment it seems that the Haider Party is getting more support rather than less from the opposition by outside governments.
The activities of the ALTENER programme will promote renewable energy sources and I believe that such programmes merit financial support at the developmental stage as they offer enormous commercial potential in the future.
Once again, the individuality, dignity and health of a people are being sacrificed to the higher economic interest.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
It is proof, as if we still needed it, of the fact that immature diplomacy, which defends no interests, unless of course they are individual interests, and is caught between the dogma of free trade and pressure groups and more or less friendly NGOs, is not just inefficient, it is positively dangerous.
This first step is so important because of this model function.
So, I would like to hear more about how the Commission will guarantee this uniform application in practice and whether you yourself consider the courses outlined from point one hundred onwards in the White Paper to be feasible.
Relating to Wednesday:
We have followed a nominal list which was identical to that which we had agreed upon beforehand with the Socialist Group.
The involvement of voluntary and community groups will also be an essential ingredient of the EQUAL initiative and the projects.
But water is not free of charge, any more than houses or food are free of charge.
It is really not possible to see how the Commission could by the end of 1998, as stipulated by Article 7 of the directive, have evaluated the effects of a text which came into force in February of the same year.
On the other hand, cooperation with Bulgaria, and in particular with Greece, has made good progress and I think we should acknowledge that too.
As Mrs Randzio-Plath said, we must remember that the reason why certain Members want to revive this question is because of the recent international financial crises and their economic, social and environmental consequences which have been felt by all in some countries.
I would like to say that transparency does not only apply from the Community institutions "outwards" , it also applies between the institutions.
Is it because of cut-throat and globalised competition that industrialists have allowed this sector to become a way of recycling all the waste from the agri-foodstuffs industry?
I believe a vaccine should not be used for preventative purposes as suggested in Amendment No 4.
On a separate matter altogether, I would like to support Cuba' s membership as an ACP country within the framework of the new Lomé Convention which will shortly be agreed between the European Union and African, Caribbean and Pacific countries.
I was very glad to learn last week that the Commission is giving close attention over a number of years to the concept of subsidiarity and its reference, not merely to relations between the Union and Member States, but also the Union, the Member States, regions and cities.
On the issue of Palestine, I recognise that there are still some difficulties with regard to the implementation of some aspects of the Wye Agreement.
Everyone should have clean water at their disposal but the availability and good quality of water is not so self-evident, as many have experienced in Southern Europe and are experiencing now in the Danube countries too.
Clearly it is impossible to adopt measures at the national level.
In short, we should put our faith in those parties who, in these areas, are better equipped than us to make certain decisions.
I think that my colleague Mr Alavanos will be giving all these particulars to the Commissioner so that he may be aware of them, because this really is propaganda and not just some way of promoting Community programmes.
Your President, Mrs Fontaine, has agreed to take part with Mr Prodi and several Commissioners in this initial dialogue. I can assure you that, whenever a Commissioner intends to engage in dialogue, the most immediately available MEPs will also be able to take part in order to give their point of view and explain the work and role of the European Parliament.
The eradication of poverty was central to our work and many speakers highlighted the need to preserve an essential tool for achieving that ambitious aim, to whit, preferential agreements between the European Union and the ACP countries within the framework of the Lomé Conventions.
This has claimed thousands of lives over the past two years.
We had, as usual, many debates on countries where there are war situations.
Incidentally, many thanks to Mr Scharping, the Chairman of the European Social Democrats, for withdrawing the call to take part in demonstrations in Austria from his homepage and therefore not advising anarchists in favour of violent action to go to Vienna tomorrow.
If, by chance, it were possible to agree to include the cultural dimension in what has been called the fifth negotiating box of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, then this could be suggested, both by Member States, and by the Members of the European Parliament taking part in the preparatory group.
The damage suffered, also in ecological terms, cannot be expressed in money.
Our responsibilities do not stop at enlargement, or at the Balkans.
We cannot, and we do not, support in any way the sentiments and politics of Herr Haider and we deplore his references to the Third Reich.
The Tobin tax would not have been able to prevent the crises in the EEA in 1992 and 1993 or the crises in the south-east Asian currencies in 1997.
If you tell us today how you wish to proceed, you will be doing us a great service.
I would like Mr Barón Crespo, who made the request, to speak to propose it. That is, if he so wishes, of course.
It should no longer be the case that, although Europe is an economic power, we have no political influence because, when the chips are down, we cannot offer effective aid to areas which desperately need it.
I think it is very creditable that you should mention the concept of 'global administration' , as others too have said here.
This combination of instruments enables us to implement a policy of rural development which today, furthermore, is one of the ways in which the common agricultural policy - in one of its dimensions - and regional policy also, have developed and changed.
Amendments Nos 4. 49 and 87 would not be acceptable because they would restrict the ability of a country to move water from where it is in supply to where it is needed, be that arid areas or urban areas.
I am referring to this now because I will not have time to speak later on.
This is why the INTERREG Community Initiative was launched in 1990.
The reality is that the details of this legislation will be set out in daughter directives in months and years to come.
It has been a huge task, and I should like to express my support for all of Mrs Lienemann' s amendments. These are all improvements to the common position.
That is the one word I am talking about.
It is fostered by a fair appraisal of our assets.
Once again, Europe is distancing itself from its poorest and most vulnerable inhabitants.
Existing EU treaties will be amended so as to ensure, for example, that the enlargement process can succeed.
The European Union needs rules governing environmental liability as a matter of urgency.
I believe that in this context, and in the context of the dialogue that the Council and Parliament will have to establish on the future of Europol and Eurojust, it will be possible for us to find an acceptable institutional solution to the relationship between the Council and Parliament with regard to Europol.
As a result, the three percent standard will rarely be exceeded, not even in a bad economic climate.
For safety' s sake, I should like to have confirmation that it really is the case that, where the Commission and good administration are concerned, there is no part of Jacob Söderman' s proposal which the Commission thinks is unacceptable.
Israel has to accept its responsibilities, withdraw from the occupied territories and share its water resources but, at the same time, it has to be sure that it will be safe and able to live in peace in terms of economic and political relations with all the countries in the area.
As regards the amendments concerning radioactive substances, I am of course in favour of controls, but the question arises of the legal basis, which comes under the Euratom Treaty.
Some rights will apply to anyone present in the EU territory while others will benefit only citizens of the European Union.
President, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Ahern, Mrs Roth-Behrendt and Mrs Jackson for their words of support in relation to the White Paper.
Our agreement to the negotiations, as set out in the rapporteur' s explanatory statement, is born of the conviction that it is right for Union policy to combine both a regional dimension and a more precise assessment of efforts made and results achieved by individual countries in moving towards the acquis communautaire.
The Arab world' s criticism of Israel has been founded upon the same sort of anti-colonialism as, for example, Algeria' s fight for freedom against France.
The crisis in last year' s Commission has been solved today, but the Commission must now produce a policy in which we get full support for a coherent approach, which, no doubt, the entire Parliament will soon demand in the resolution.
And what about agriculture and the environment? Still more problems, still more areas of incoherence which I might have highlighted, not to mention research, emigration or health.
It is therefore important to include these currencies too in the section of the present programme of measures which deals with penal sanctions.
We must create joint, interregional and transnational management bodies, in which all local and regional authorities, as well as economic and social operators, play an active role.
I have to say that I do not know the precise answer to that question.
As the rapporteur said, this becomes particularly important when tourism is appreciated as a unitary productive system because of its ability to absorb large quantities of agricultural and industrial products, services and transport and to create a significant amount of added value.
Amendments 7 to 13 simply fail to take account of the reality as evidenced by the starkly contrasting statistics from Scotland and from Norway.
I shall summarise two of those highlighted by the rapporteur, one positive and one negative.
The position of Parliament in this whole procedure is somewhat unclear.
You are concerned about whether the Structural Funds will be used to finance the installation of nuclear plants anywhere.
the oral question (B5-0005/2000) by Mr Désir and others, to the Commission, on the Commission position on the idea of a capital tax.
Even in Member States and cities that are extremely wealthy we have large numbers of people living in ghettos, in situations where there are inadequate facilities, where schooling is very poor, where the physical infrastructure is under-developed and where drugs and other phenomena are rife.
Thank you for listening.
The EU should leave Cyprus and Malta alone.
On the other hand, quite specific action has been called for on the subject of safety of life.
By putting finance at the helm, this has reinforced the demands of profitability and toughened the operating conditions everywhere.
However, before we rush in with a whole raft of new measures and new regulations, let us look carefully at the existing arrangements to be sure that they are being properly implemented.
This intergovernmental fishery organisation of which the European Union is a member is responsible for the conservation of tuna and tuna-like species in the Atlantic and the adjacent seas including the Mediterranean.
I am surprised, however, at the fact that many want to achieve this by means of Community policy.
They should also be pursued in the context of the bilateral and multilateral agreements which the Community negotiates.
The Commission has proposed measures aimed at providing information, together with penal sanctions, preventive measures and the pooling of experience.
Mr President, first I want to compliment the rapporteur, Charlotte Cederschiöld, on drawing up this report, which is an excellent point of departure for increasing protection by penal sanctions against counterfeiting in connection with the introduction of the euro.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten, today we are discussing a country that really has suffered hard times, a country that is, however, moving in a very promising direction, thanks to its own efforts and resolve and certainly also thanks to the support of the international community.
There are also difficulties with the issue of transfers.
I therefore ask that both questions and answers be very brief.
The other replaces a reference to income from sales and other revenue, subsidies, interest received, etc., with a reference simply to volume of sales.
I shall conclude by emphasising that harmonising the professional qualifications of advisers will contribute to improving the quality of the service in the interest of users, to minimising the risks of accident likely to cause damage to the environment as well as significant damage liable to be harmful to any person who may come into contact with dangerous goods.
Only companies which obtained the original authorisation will have the right to apply and companies which obtained authorisation at a later date will be excluded.
I hope you do not mind if I make particular mention of the forests in my region, Lorraine, which have suffered enormous destruction.
I think they should have.
Every day, new crimes come to light against non-Albanian speakers and against the cultural heritage of Kosovo, and there are hundreds of violations of the UN' s Resolution 1244.
There must be flexibility and the administrative burden must be reduced as a priority.
If you cannot tell us for this year, then last year and the year before.
In those circumstances it would be silly not to widen the agenda.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
I am thinking of transport policy and regional policy.
We are all aware that, to this end, it is essential for the Council to approve, as quickly as possible, the scoreboard which Commissioner Vitorino has the remit of establishing.
I have to inform you, Commissioner, that both the report of the Wise Men and that of Mr van Hulten will become gauges for our group, gauges which should make it clear to us whether we can have confidence in the Prodi Commission or not.
They will need time to get used to that too.
Colleagues, I am in a very difficult position because I cannot change the agenda.
It makes no sense at all for the various international institutions and associations to be engaged in competition amongst themselves rather than investing all their energies in helping the people on the ground!
Madam President, can you tell me why this Parliament does not adhere to the health and safety legislation that it actually passes?
I believe that, in accordance with Article 69 (2), we must endeavour to enter into discussion with the Commission, and I would therefore urge my fellow MEPs to decide in favour of referral back to committee.
Quite the opposite, in an enlarged Europe, Mr President, the standardisation imposed by the improper use of majority decisions can lead only to the whole thing exploding.
The scandalous concentration of power in sectors of strategic importance is giving speculative multinational groups economies the size of entire states, and Member States of the Union at that.
That is the real difficulty which we must overcome.
By stressing, primarily, the quality of the information provided, our debate in committee, and hence the report which it is my honour to present to you, avoided a simplistic response in the form of an a priori statement that the level of state aid was, in absolute terms, either too high or not high enough.
.
I have no objection to the idea of submitting a planning supplement jointly with the main programme.
If they were adopted, many of the amendments which have been tabled would considerably weaken the directive.
(The President cut the speaker off)
It is time you took your job seriously, it is time for you, as President of the Commission, to box the Member States on the ears and force them to do their work and fulfil their duties.
This is also at the request of the citizens.
Mr President, rapporteur, restoring the confidence of the citizens in the work of the European institutions and in European politics is one of the most important tasks we have before us.
The integration of the maritime border into strand A would finally allow the western periphery to be recognised as a unique and important economic area which is confronted by the 'continentalisation' of the European Union.
However, nothing is said about the causes of this crisis and those responsible for it.
We are about to discuss the subject of reforming the Commission and you will recall, Madam President, that at the beginning of the last session, I raised with you the question of whether, in the interests of openness and transparency, the Members' register of interests could be made more available to the public by being published on the Internet.
Subsidiarity should make us realise that the state, exercising its governing functions, and local authorities are the bodies most able to intervene appropriately. The state can ensure public safety and the local authorities can help disadvantaged people.
In view of all this, we also believe the time has come to demand a redoubled effort by the Commission and the Member States, on behalf of those who are now drowning in Mozambique.
In its numerous debates and its reports so far the European Parliament has openly supported the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Mr President, this is because I do not think that the harmonious day to day relations, contacts and communication between FYROM and Greece that have actually been achieved at both bipartite and multipartite level, and this mainly thanks to the practical arrangements of the intermediate agreement, I repeat, I do not think these sufficiently cover the conditions and criteria of good neighbourliness necessary, inter alia, for negotiating and concluding an association agreement.
It has economic implications and an impact on employment and social cohesion, but it also provides major new opportunities when anticipated, prepared for and managed.
The Commissioner has said that a minimum number of industrialised countries would be needed to achieve this.
I realise that this is a somewhat time-consuming exercise but, nonetheless, the establishment of legislation arising out of the opinions of the Authority is - I believe - the way forward.
Illegal state aid, by contrast, destroys competitive companies and creates unemployment.
We shall proceed to vote on the PPE-DE Group' s request that the oral question regarding the capital tax be withdrawn from the agenda.
The debate is closed.
In this sense, I am in agreement with Mr Sakellariou' s proposals.
It also allows the Commission itself to finance studies and pilot projects.
The recent disaster on the Danube serves as a reminder that our rivers are the lifelines of our planet and that pollution does not respect borders.
This objective is very much to be welcomed and also meets with a broad consensus in this House.
However I also believe that the reforms must go further than those we are to adopt here.
This gives them a competitive edge for the interim period.
Statement by the President
The main point is that the money for Cyprus' s and Malta' s pre-accession aid should come from category seven and that there should be a review of the financial perspectives for, if the Council does not endorse this view, it is in reality acting in conflict with its own decisions in Helsinki in December.
This message is contained in the excellent report by Mr Andersson.
I hope that this conference will also encourage the Commission to take the issue of libraries into active consideration in the fifth framework programme in respect of the information society.
In order to prevent this cheap sugar from the developing countries from competing with the more expensive EU sugar, a considerable import levy is imposed on cane sugar.
The next Lomé Convention must specify the investment in education and stimulate regional cooperation and the participation of local bodies.
Madam President, I clearly owe Mr Wurtz an explanation, and I am going give this explanation before the whole House.
Mr President, I would like to start my additional question with the Tibetan greeting, which betokens peace and happiness.
A number of colleagues have today pointed to areas in addition to aid which are important and where contrasts and conflicts between different policy areas are very serious indeed.
It is perfectly correct that we need to apply this in certain cases.
It is therefore necessary to link structural financing more closely to job creation.
Two questions if I may.
In my opinion, it is precisely in anticipation of this deadline that the European Union should strive to reduce disparities between regions and put an end to the isolation of border areas.
I simply wish to remind you that the European Parliament has already sent a letter to the three kings through its reports.
The Commission proposals refer to the four pillars of employment strategy and the five fields of action of the European Social Fund.
This, however, does not mean that the Council can work on this anonymously.
It is over ten years since the collapse of the Soviet Union and yet your projects contain a strong hint of the gulags and mollifying moralism.
Or their Socialist back-up troops who, in this House, have the cheek to thrust their values down our throats?
Who is to pay for recycling the car I bought in France if I register it in Belgium?
Under the European Community' s damage assessment, estimated costs of the reconstruction of healthcare facilities and provision of equipment to dispensaries and health houses amount to EUR 4 million.
It would be the first in a long time.
I am not worried that the Spanish Government should look foolish, because at the end of the day it was their responsibility, but it does worry me that the Commission should look foolish by endorsing, through its presence, this absurd event.
It is clear that in a process such as this, where we are discussing the disposal of a considerable stream of both electrical and electronic waste in Europe, there is an on-going dialogue between the different parties concerned.
I shall give you the floor for any points of order after the vote.
At best this report simply corrects certain aspects and effects of the crisis. Yet only scandalously limited resources are available for this work.
No action has been taken on our report which unanimously proposed a European framework status for assistant spouses.
We have a direct financial interest in these issues being settled before enlargement.
Also, the observation that the disparities between regions within Member States sometimes even become more pronounced raises serious questions.
Certain important steps have been taken to secure progress in the summit between Europe and Africa in which I was pleased to participate in cooperation with the Portuguese presidency. A vital meeting has also taken place in Portugal, in Vilamoura, with the eighteen countries of Latin America to try and develop a deeper relationship between the European Union and Latin America.
We are extremely disappointed.
We feel that it is important that the Commission takes account of the conclusions adopted by this Parliament, at least in spirit, because at this stage, it might seem as though what we are doing here is a useless exercise, and nothing but hot air.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I thank you for your answer which supplements what Commissioner Patten said yesterday on the subject.
Report (A5-0034/2000) by Ms Stenzel, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the draft communication from the Commission to the Member States establishing the guidelines for Community Initiative Programmes (CIPs) for which the Member States are invited to submit proposals for support under the EQUAL initiative (COM(1999) 476 - C5-0260/1999 - 1999/2186(COS))
For this reason, I cannot therefore endorse the transfer of powers to European level.
Question No 44 by (H-0819/99):
Consequently, these proposals do not live up to the issues at stake. They represent a downward spiral which in the long term would require the number of judges to be increased to several hundred.
There are concerns even within the Fifteen, concerns which may even surface again in the next decade.
A long memory will serve us well, ladies and gentlemen.
Madam President, unfortunately I do not have your mastery of the French language.
To guarantee transparency and prudence, investments in non-harmonised funds should only be allowed on condition that qualitative criteria, for example a transparency requirement and investor protection, are introduced.
However, you are right to question me as this is your task, as mine is to answer you.
This is not acceptable. We only found out too late and, as a result, medical inspection must be provided, paying special attention to the volunteers who dedicated themselves to restoring the environment.
Seven amendments have been retabled for this plenary sitting.
It tabled resolutions on the human rights situation in Iran, Iraq, in the Israeli settlements, in Burma/Myanmar, in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and in Sudan, and negotiated statements to be issued on behalf of the chairman on Colombia and on East Timor.
We are taking about criminal law here and criminal law has to be interpreted by the letter.
Well I certainly take gender mainstreaming seriously and so does my colleague Commissioner Nielson.
Firstly, the enlargement of the thematic areas.
I have therefore asked my services to be willing to consider a reasonable increase in the number of towns eligible under the URBAN programme conditional upon certain guarantees, firstly on concentration - I am thinking particularly of the target areas which must have a minimum of 20 000 or, in exceptional cases, 10 000 inhabitants - and also upon the critical mass of funding: we must keep to EUR 500 per inhabitant so that the European Union action may be both effective and clear, and so that it does not resemble a sort of scattering of resources which would have no real impact either for citizens or for municipalities.
Commissioner, I would like to thank you for your response to the Member' s first question and the supplementary question.
A working party has been set up with the express task of revising the Commission' s mechanisms. This working party has worked hard to reach agreement that it is essential to enhance the effectiveness of the present mechanisms and to make them more rigorous, especially in the financial field.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as I do not have a background as a Member of the European Parliament, you will understand that it is even more moving for me to be here than it is for my colleague Fernando Gomes.
We are therefore assuming that you will accept our proposed amendment with regard to genetically-modified organisms.
And if the aggressors include working-class people, all we can say to them is that, in acting in this way, they are digging their own graves.
Mr President, let me begin by expressing my personal appreciation of the quality of Mr Swoboda' s work as rapporteur.
Therefore I am fully confident that the Commission will be able to follow very closely the evolution of the situation in Austria, as in any other Member State.
I therefore believe that the European Union must, to start with, carry out an analysis of the situation of these reservoirs and compile a precise record of the number of these in Europe.
I have been informed that the Commissioner for the Environment, Margot Wallström, has travelled from Strasbourg to Romania in order to see for herself, on the spot, what has happened.
Their only crime was to criticise what human rights organisations have been denouncing all along, namely the large-scale corruption and disappearance of hundreds of millions of dollars, paid by the oil companies to the Angolan Government.
As far as possible, we want to see this sort of training automatically built into programmes at the outset, instead of having to be tackled separately and later.
- (DE) Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I would like to apologise for being a little hoarse today, but we Austrian MEPs have had a lot of explaining and talking to do.
Mr Solana, these questions convey our concern.
(Applause)
We also need to follow this up and make sure that our rules are transposed by the Member States in good time and - even more importantly - we need to ensure that they are also applied afterwards.
I would like to draw your attention to something Mr Goodwill asked, that is to the connections we make between the precautionary principle and the world beyond the European Union.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gallagher' s report on the fourth amendment of the Regulation on technical measures was not amended in our committee. It was actually approved unanimously for which I congratulate the rapporteur.
An in-depth environmental impact assessment had been carried out.
The Commission will submit a proposal for a regulation on cooperation between all the responsible authorities and on cooperation with Europol.
The Commission does not reflect the majority in this particular Parliament.
The journalist had brought to light a corruption scandal in the President' s cabinet.
This has given rise to the proposals we are making to at least extend the regions eligible to include the NUTS III Sicilian provinces which have a frontier with Malta and to include all the regions of the Adriatic which share a frontier with Balkan regions.
Finally, paragraph 7 emphasises that "the social convergence process must be accompanied by an effective and ambitious fiscal coordination" . And, in this regard, we approach the heart of the matter.
Quality products in order to improve competitiveness, sustainability in order to protect resources and innovation in particular through the use of information technologies.
The EU Presidency' s "common reaction" against the formation of the government in Austria is legally unjustified.
The debate is closed.
I express the hope that - in fact, I urge the present Commission to ensure that - the 1997 discharge is the beginning of a true reform of financial policy by the Commission. Otherwise this discharge will not have been of any value.
It will also be necessary to undertake selective fishing and, together with my colleague, Nol Mamre, who is also a former Member of the European Parliament, we would request a moratorium on the use of deep-sea trawlers in Community waters in the Bay of Biscay, to the south of the 47th parallel north, because we have had enough of seeing dolphins being washed up and dying on our beaches, particularly at the moment.
I may have missed it in the list she gave out.
I would like to raise the problems which are still piled up high on our desks.
But where will you place the emphasis?
However, we cannot carry out tests on nuclear plants which are in operation; it is just not possible.
What we are discussing here is the fact that close on ten million cars are scrapped every year in the European Union, resulting in approximately as many millions of tons of waste.
In many cases other existing directives on water have not been complied with and governments and the Commission have often not imposed discipline as they should have done, although I know that this is not pleasant.
Mr President, what I want to do in this debate is condemn the fate reserved for the poor countries of Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific.
It must prevent any racist or xenophobic demonstrations in its territory and support and collaborate with national, regional and local authorities and non-governmental organisations and associations in the application of these principles. This must occur within a framework of constant action to combat racism and xenophobia and to encourage the integration of all immigrants resident in the EU.
It was this which inspired us to propose the same thing with regard to state aid.
At the same time, it is important to appreciate the economic importance of financial business dealings, particularly those we are concerned with today.
During the presidential elections, it appeared that things were not running too smoothly, but compared to the rest of the region, Macedonia could serve as a model.
The concerns expressed by the European Parliament about Tibet are widely shared.
The time for action is upon us.
We believe that this course of action is ambitious, yet achievable.
We all agree that the current economic conjuncture is good.
It should be noted that the current regulation on social security systems does not at present refer to the question of early retirement and the Commission has proposed certain amendments to the regulation which are, however, still pending before the Council.
Nowadays, certain forms of crime are cross-border crimes and it is, of course, in the interests of the Member States to improve cooperation so that they can crack down on them.
This new dimension to the partnership agreement reflects the guidelines espoused by the EU in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam and with the conclusions of the European Council in Tampere in Finland in October 1999.
The main objective of this debate is to look at the instruments available to the international community for stabilising the international financial and monetary system.
Let us have the courage to put together a ground-breaking directive.
I sometimes have the impression that the more radical the proposals made here in this Chamber sound, the more applause they receive.
We know that most Austrians respect these values.
I have received a motion for a resolution pursuant to Rule 37(2).
Amendment No 23 involves the Commission' s having to adopt quality standards for reusable components.
It is therefore a matter of urgency to improve forest roads, and to repair them as quickly as possible.
Enlargement of the Union is just a few years away.
In such cases, there is a measurable increase in employment as a result of the growth in tourist numbers, thus establishing a virtuous circle of growth in the local economy.
The European Union undertakes to develop and implement an immigration and asylum policy founded on the principle of partnership with the originating countries and regions.
This ratification is also necessary in the light of the enlargement of Europe.
This question does not challenge the efforts made by the Member States who wish to bring their viewpoints on foreign policy into line and to display a united front against violations of human rights elsewhere, for example in China.
The Commission has also stepped up its planned support for regional cooperation projects between Israelis and Arabs.
Indeed, several years ago, this was the conclusion of a report that I compiled on the strengths and weaknesses of the European steel sector.
I hope that this change will not mean an even greater marginalisation of fishing, since the silence of your programme, with regard to fishing, is deafening.
Finally, we consider that tourism can, in addition to being a growth factor, be a factor for democracy, and in this regard we are asking the Commission for a clear, conscious commitment.
I therefore call on the Council representatives to look beyond their national boundaries and bring about a uniform asylum procedure for the whole Union.
As far as we are concerned, they will be.
You have taken 12 pages for five years and 18 pages for one year' s work programme.
It should continue along this path.
Those who oppose taxation on currency dealing are in favour of those tax-recycling centres, the tax havens, of which there are 62 in all.
Mr President, I see two problems with this morning' s debate.
In fact, the word seems to have been banished from the Commission' s vocabulary, whereas liberal and American references abound.
Nevertheless, our role as mediator means that we must take account of all current attitudes in the Council and I am sure you are aware, Mr Sjöstedt, that the tax issue poses problems for certain delegations.
A very large industry might then emerge which would ensure that scrapyards, which used to be a common feature in our Member States, would then disappear.
What can the European Union do in these circumstances?
Despite all the delight over the reworking of this Community initiative LEADER+, I do still have one further concern.
However, we are also discussing the aid report today and the general competition report for 1998, and my contribution to this joint debate relates to the latter.
I suggest to the Commission, as a repository of an enormous amount of detailed information on enlargement, to present a document, that explains the value of enlargement, not just in budgetary and financial terms but in a broader sense; a document, like the Cecchini report before the Single Act, that explains to people in a way which engages them in the debate that this is the grand, historic challenge facing Europe today.
Four, to include representatives of Parliament in the monitoring committee, at least one Member per political group.
I wish to recall that it is, in principle, up to national courts to deal with possible violations of these rules, if and when they are brought before them by national representatives.
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 are also unacceptable because they give undue preference to copy products by granting them authorisation to be placed into circulation even before an application for authorisation has been submitted.
It would be more appropriate for the EU to concentrate its financial efforts on pre-existing European policies.
We can but thank the parliamentary committees, which have - via the introduction of numerous amendments - made far-reaching modifications aimed at providing guarantees to a report which, in its initial format, we did not find at all convincing.
I would like to make two observations during this intervention, which stem from the report itself, given this Parliament' s obligation, in accordance with the Treaty, to produce a very succinct report, which does not go into depth.
At that time, she was talking about the desire for a reversed burden of proof.
I do not know, but one benchmark we could certainly use is the challenge we must take up together.
The European Commission must therefore publicise the damage caused and its assessment of this damage. It must also indicate all the specific measures, including political, economic, social and financial measures, which it intends to adopt in order to minimise the damage and compensate the fishermen and industries which have been dramatically affected overnight.
My first question, Mr Solana and Commissioner, is to establish whether, together, you have framed strategies that will, at least gradually, lead to the creation of a process that integrates the common foreign and security policy within the Community process.
Certainly, five of the nine antibiotics that were originally permitted in animal feed have now been banned.
This is a problem of compatibility between our directives on end-of-life vehicles and the former directives, including the one on auto-oil, which we voted on a few years ago.
We also have to think of the consequences, especially in terms of financing and compensating farmers.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having read the Commission communication on the INTERREG III initiative, and pointing out that I took part in the vote on Mr Decourrière' s report within the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I should like not only to expressly reiterate our agreement in principle with the initiative as presented and, particularly in the context of INTERREG III B, with the Commission' s recognition of activities contributing to the restoration of landscapes run down due the level of prices in the agricultural sector, a sector in which many associations, especially cynegetic, are already making enormous investments in my own country.
This is a war which transcends its borders. It is not just UNITA which is to blame.
I cannot but support the rapporteur in deploring the fact that the present national currencies from which the euro is to take over are not protected.
Parliament' s opinion expressly demands amendments to the Treaty in the area of economic policy.
The Council has decided to draw up a charter of citizens' rights - and we rejoice in this; it has decided to implement Article 13 of the Treaty, combating all forms of discrimination and xenophobia, and it has decided to approximate the laws on conditions for admission and residence, as well as guaranteeing residents treatment which is fair and on an equal footing with the citizens of the Union.
As Commissioner Liikanen keeps saying on his travels, we have a head start here in Europe in the area of mobile telecommunications.
You have to decide whether you want to put people in danger, for example, or if you want to protect the environment; and you have to look at the science that is available.
Madam President, I will add to the unanimity of the evening and say that I support the adoption of Culture 2000 and add my thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, who took over from our former colleague Nana Mouskouri.
For it to enter into force, it must be ratified by all 15 Member States.
I also intend to continue discussions on the preparation of specific common procedural rules for simplifying and speeding up cross-border judicial proceedings relating to small commercial and consumer claims, alimony claims and non-contested claims.
Mr President, I would firstly like to thank Mr van Hulten.
The holocaust, fifty years ago, led to the need to lay down a number of fundamental rights and freedoms.
Mr President, Commissioner, I should first like to congratulate Mr Koch on his reports which, though technical, are nonetheless of very great significance for safety.
Scrapie
You see, the world tourism market is influenced every day and directly by the liberalisation of transport, its reduced cost, and competition from new centres of tourism outside Europe.
Incidentally, this last point would be unfair to fourteen Members of the Council, since it was just one, the Netherlands, which was responsible for that intransigence.
It would also need more rapid contractual and implementation procedures and an enhanced multiannual budget line and much improved management of its programmes.
And that is what we are discussing at this late hour.
Like the rapporteur, while I am pleased with the Commission report, nonetheless I deplore the fact that it does not cover all aspects of the aid.
Mr President, I have the honour of being a member of the Convention drafting the Charter so I am not going to ask the presidency to speculate on the contents or whether it thinks the Convention should be declaratory or whether it should have judicial force.
That is the only deterrent we have for preventing other classification companies from following suit.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if our neighbour' s roof is leaking, we can lend him pots and pans to collect the water, but it is, of course, more effective to help him plug the leak in the roof.
The Treaty of Amsterdam, Mr President, has set the number of European Parliament Members at 700 and a debate is needed in this Parliament on how that number will be distributed among the enlarged Europe.
In the past, this Parliament has viewed the social economy as an important potential provider of employment.
In some Member States it is not just a matter of providing information to a public that is not as well informed as it might be.
Firstly, we are concerned with the proper use of the Structural and Cohesion Funds.
They have been living in harrowing living conditions for years.
It is estimated that, in Europe alone, income of EUR 4.5 billion is lost because of piracy.
In this way, the unanimity principle has shown itself to be a blockading instrument of the first order.
I would like once again to thank all the speakers, and also, especially, the Vice-President, Mr Provan, for his magnificent work throughout this debate, particularly during the conciliation procedure, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Industry and, also, above all, the rapporteur, Mrs Ahern, and all the Members who have participated in this work.
I must add that it is a welcome change to see Mrs Frassoni in such a conciliatory mood and willing to reach compromises with the other institutions.
On behalf of the Commission I am able to congratulate the rapporteur on having again addressed the genuinely difficult question as to what we can do, in terms of creating legal bases and effecting institutional change, to step up the fight against fraud perpetrated against the European Union.
I would like to hear the Commissioner's view on Amendment No 45.
The Commission must continue along these lines.
If we continue to get bogged down with proposals that have given extremely poor results so far, I do not know what we or the Commission will be able to do.
In other words, what is needed is a number of accompanying measures if anything at all is to be accomplished there.
Our normal disagreement further emphasises our appreciation today: this is extraordinary because the danger of a resurgence of an irrational, neo-nazi element in Europe is extraordinary.
It is incomprehensible that an accident of this kind could have happened at all today.
It means allocating staff to areas of high-policy importance within departments and across the Commission.
The honourable Member asked a question on this topic in November 1999 and I would like to refer him to the answer given at the time.
We will be in a position to judge just as soon as the Commission presents its reform programme.
This means putting forward the Commission' s priorities, based on past experience in implementing the programmes, as well as current Community policies relating to structural operations.
As you know, on Monday an unmanned spacecraft went into orbit around a peanut-shaped asteroid called Eros which is not very far from earth.
We support the efforts of UNMIK, KFOR and the OSCE to establish a functioning civil administration and to ensure law and order.
I utterly condemn this act of barbarism that is unworthy of any civilised society.
It is certainly not my task to judge other people' s alliances but if the People' s Party and the Liberals are so desperate to cement their alliance, let them at least propose something positive, something that has a chance of working, not repeat the same tired old platitudes, ideas that have so singularly failed us in the past, nor oppose other people' s concrete efforts just for the sake of opposing them.
We will be organising and supporting actions including, in particular, the debate on the need for a legislative programme on implementing mutual recognition of judicial decisions in criminal matters.
As yet, we have no grounds for saying that we will actually succeed, but one thing I can say quite clearly is that the conditions that need to be in place for us to take a step forwards have improved considerably.
So far, we here in Parliament have been positive catalysts for environmental protection but now, if the amendments proposed by Mr Florenz and Mr Lange are adopted, we are to become a negative factor for the environment in Europe.
Mr Solana, as the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I shall limit my speech to those subjects.
I thank the Commissioner, and do not at all question his intentions and interventions, which adopted a positive line.
We will not exactly win any awards with this regulation as far as that is concerned.
Today, you are identifying Yugoslavia with Milosevic and you are playing with Voivodina, with Montenegro and with southern Serbia. It is you who has created this mess.
We have built a wide range of instruments which meet these concerns in recent years in the European Union.
Although Mr Corrie' s report roundly condemns this situation and reaffirms the Joint Assembly' s attachment to the Lomé model, he fails to highlight properly a second problem which, to tell the truth, is also the result of the free-trade error, namely the incoherence of the regional trade agreements signed by the European Union.
This will certainly facilitate the introduction of a new regulation concerning environmental data and may even render this unnecessary.
We must reach agreement here, in all the European Union' s ports, from Marseilles, through to Rotterdam, to Wilhelmshaven, Cuxhaven, and wherever ships drop anchor.
We have seen vote after vote lost.
Another journalist was threatened with his life during a parliamentary debate last month by a member of parliament of the MPLA government party.
The Commission and the Andersson report are not proposing a social policy; they are giving Brussels exorbitant decision-making powers as regards funding, i.e. as regards the organisation and the provision of social protection services in the countries of Europe, which is why we voted against this text.
You have mentioned Ethiopia, which falls within the scope of national indicative programmes, but there are, as you know, several Community actions to combat AIDS, and in this respect, you are right, and the United States will probably not do any better.
Moreover, Sweden has introduced the changes gradually in a climate of political consensus.
I was asked to highlight the result of the storms in Ireland.
Will the Americans take the same view of this point as we do?
It provides a framework within which we can prevent any further deterioration, protect ecosystems, promote sustainable water use, help to fight floods and drought and gradually eliminate the disposal of dangerous substances.
We also need a code of corporate conduct to make sure that companies in fact work in partnership with their workers in the management of change.
Needless to say, the directive also needs to be binding.
Thirdly, the LIFE budget has been reduced in real terms has not kept up with the enormous dynamism and creativity of demand.
Report (A5-0031/2000) by Mr Swoboda, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the Commission recommendation on a Council decision authorising the Commission to negotiate a stabilisation and association agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (SEC(1999)1279 - C5-0166/1999 - 1999/2121(COS))
On the other hand, the new Austrian Government' s programme reaffirms its commitment to defend democracy and human rights.
In addition, we have a flexible clause concerning the efficiency of the negotiations and of the institutions, which may be used for any purposes whatsoever. It is therefore ...
We have failed to achieve a qualified majority.
Consequently, Amendment No 107, on the same question, has been tabled by one section of our group only.
I would say the ones the Commission was able to satisfy have been satisfied.
This is what has come of rushing headlong into enlargement and not clearly defining roles and tasks.
The debate is closed.
Finally, I would stress that we have been asking the Council and the Commission since July to take forceful action to secure the release of the 3 000 Kosovar prisoners and Mrs Brovina, Mr Jurti and Mr Hoti.
There is no opportunity to send a strong message to the Member States: recognising the legal basis of tourism would allow the States to acknowledge one of the European Union' s competences which at the moment, is only exercised in fits and starts.
We have got to take on board the concerns of the fishermen and we have got to work closely with them and I hope that you, as the Commissioner responsible for fisheries, will recognise that divide and will try and work as closely as you possibly can to ensure that all sides are brought together and their views are taken on board.
Mr President, I almost feel like saying, "Phew" , now that we have at last come to the second reading on this directive which has given us so much work, and which has clearly also given a great deal of work to the rapporteur, Mr Florenz.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
Mr President, as a new Member I am pleased to be able to make my maiden speech here today, even though there has been a delay.
If that is realpolitik, if we really do not have any means, Mr Solana, as High Representative of the CFSP, and Commissioner, I put this question to you both, let us at least use the means that we do have, namely, the aid programmes to Russia.
Whether or not the reforms succeed depends, to a very large extent, on the Commission' s own initiative.
It is my hope that we will be able to achieve a lot of synergy with a little money.
LEADER+ differs from the previous stages in that all rural areas will be eligible. It is also more ambitious, and better geared to the challenges which rural areas will have to meet.
In this context I am happy to partly accept Amendment No 1, taking into account, however, that scientific investigations are not done by the Commission but that the Commission relies on results of investigations carried out in the Member States.
To a certain extent we have gone beyond agreements which are already dated and, by realigning old procedures with the new situation, we aim to clear up everything still outstanding from the past.
Mr President, Mrs Attwooll' s reports are extremely important as indeed is the prospect of having as much data as possible on the fisheries sectors of the Member States. This is particularly true given that the Commission must soon prepare a report on the revision of the common fisheries policy in the year 2002.
Decourrière report (A5-0028/2000)
It is also my primary concern to optimise consumer protection in this way and I think it is very important for this to be reflected in the Commission' s proposal and that of the European Parliament, as well as in the compromise motions.
In this context it is important to note that the European Union regularly opposes requests by China that the human rights dialogue should automatically rule out tabling a resolution at the Human Rights Commission in Geneva.
I would be grateful if the Commissioner could confirm in his final remarks that he will do this.
Europe is a community of law.
If we pursue this agenda with commitment and diligence, the early years of the new millennium will be a milestone in the implementation of policies that are people-focused and very much reflect community needs.
It is an extremely moving account, not just of his responsibilities in and towards Tibet but also of his spiritual views as well.
Only the people cut off from the harsh reality of the grass roots could have any doubt about that.
The Commission is not putting all its cards on the table and is in that way repeating ancient practice on the part of the Commission.
We await the White Paper on the governance of the European Union dealing with the issue of balance between Member States' governments and the European Union institutions which is to be published this summer.
The new INTERREG programme, in the form in which we have received it, takes into consideration the needs engendered by enlargement to the countries of Eastern and Central Europe and to island regions and most remote regions.
We need to educate our children on these matters and finally have the courage to recognise that we will need to be prepared to accept many more immigrants in years to come.
Madam President, apart from these - to my mind - quite fundamental observations, there are also practical objections to the Tobin tax, as already underlined by Mr Karas and other speakers.
I should like to be absolutely categorical.
Will it set out established social rights in the European Union or will it set a broader agenda?
There is also a risk of overlap with other Community programmes such as the Fifth Framework Programme for Research, Technical Development and Demonstration.
There is nothing to indicate that the Member States' legal principles, legal traditions and carefully tailored legal systems should be lost for reasons to do with an already familiar offence such as counterfeiting. Nor, in the light of the international convention of 20 April 1929, can there be any confusion as to which country should deal with any criminal cases.
This is the sine qua non condition for reconciling the popular and political spheres.
At the same time, it was rightly pointed out that Europe must evaluate its role as a joint partner with developing countries, and strengthen its activities designed for fighting poverty.
During these years, the emphasis has mainly been on the safety of passenger transport.
In this respect, the Commission supports Amendment No 22, as I have already mentioned.
This document stems from the previous Commission. It is undoubtedly the result of work carried out by Commissioner Papoutsis throughout his term of office and which culminated in the Luxembourg summit and his failed Philoxenia programme.
It is to take new ideas and try them out in LEADER, with the participants on the ground, with the local organisations on the ground, with many non-governmental organisations, with the churches, with all those who have helped actually to get new ideas up and running in rural communities.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
All that remains for me to say is: time to get down to business.
Mr President, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Theato on her report.
Nor can it be done, if the proposal involves a threat to public health.
(Applause) The Commission has an important role to play here by getting a coordinated policy under way with the nation states to reduce taxes so that entrepreneurship pays.
Thank you, Mr Wurtz.
But I really feel that, in the circumstances, we want to know what the implications would be for business.
It is before Parliament for second reading.
Once again, the principle of 'polluter pays' is not being applied. The taxpayer is still footing the bill.
Those could perpetuate an infection.
An initial conciliation meeting was not successful, because the Council would not at that time accept an increase of EUR 1.9 million.
Moreover, regarding these small businesses, we will have to consider whether it would not be better to apply a system with a prior warning built in, the yellow card, instead of an immediate red card, which will be a large fine and will threaten the company' s very existence.
There will also be evidence of the fact that we have taken heed of the representations made in this House particularly in the Committee on Budgetary Control, and that is significant in respect of the use of ex ante visas in Directorates-General.
. (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, now that the Commissioner has explained to us, in an extremely coherent manner, that the erstwhile President-in-Office of the Council and his Minister of State for Europe bore responsibility for the lack of coherence, perhaps you could help the Commissioner and ourselves, so as to enable us to take this decision.
After all, this is a candidate country we are talking about, and this disaster is in addition to the existing concern about whether all candidate countries will comply with the EU environmental rules in time.
I look forward to working with this Parliament, with the Council and with the staff of the institutions to ensure that the reform strategy is put fully into effect for the benefit of the Union and for the advantage of all of its peoples.
Thank you, Minister.
It is a very interesting position to be in, to say the least.
Today, the Commission is obliged, on a case-by-case basis, to weigh considerations of confidentiality against people' s demands for, and expectation of, transparency and, if the Commission' s regulation is adopted, the Commission will be entitled to lock away whole categories of documents without having to give them specific consideration.
We must develop greater certainty in the science that underpins food safety in the European Union.
Mr President, first of all let me say that I am in full support of a statute for assistants.
In spite of these remarks however, I believe our common objective of sustainable use of water resources can be maintained.
As you know, in our country, each village has its own local post office or at least a post box, with a collection every day.
You have to see this as a tool for risk management.
Despite this, there are some amendments which the Commission cannot adopt: Amendment No 26, which does not seem to observe the order in which licences are granted and activities start; parts of Amendment No 27, especially the part where the prevention of conflicts of interests is deleted, the delegation of tasks is restricted to components of management decisions and the general decision-taking of Member States concerning delegation is repealed; Amendment No 31 because the Commission is of the opinion that the application of Article 44 of the directive in unchanged form has proved adequate for the trading in rights of participation in UCITS.
However, despite the fact that the volume is relatively small, it is nevertheless symbolically important that there is a common desire throughout the Community as a whole to support this type of action, which contributes to our genuine compliance with the Kyoto commitments. This action also contributes to achieving greater diversification in terms of our energy sources, greater safety in our energy supplies and, in the case of SAVE, to reducing consumption and increasing efficiency in the use of energy, thereby contributing to achieving the objectives set.
But I would like to point out that the concern with depleted uranium weapons is about the way in which they are used.
Unrestricted liability on the part of manufacturers would also be in danger of creating a situation in which the market for used car parts disappears, for manufacturers would have a greater responsibility to sell new parts.
Therefore, Madam President, I would like to repeat that the Commission has debated the action plan for the next five years and, when Parliament decides, - this week if that is the decision - we are prepared to come and explain the programme for the next five years and, next month, the programme for 2000, which is what we fully agreed upon.
One urban district post office after another is being closed down.
Mr President, it is a great pleasure for me to address you for the first time on behalf of the Council presidency, particularly in view of the very important role that the European Parliament is bound to play in the near future, given the need to strengthen development policies at European Union level.
We therefore hope that the Commission, in the report it is going to present to us on global policy, will also address the question of coherence as an integral element in the efficient use of Community resources and the specific management of public interests.
In the hills and glens of Scotland and the rural borders and central belt, on the beautiful but fragile islands of the Hebrides, Orkney and Shetland, there is real concern at possibly losing this essential service.
These agreements risk being extended to living organisms, which would mean the death of biodiversity and the return of de facto slavery for small-scale farmers in the south, at the hands of the multinationals.
There are two fundamental questions in particular.
And furthermore the Commissioner has not quoted from his bibliography this time.
I have received seven motions for resolution tabled pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
Political and monetary convergence in Europe unavoidably entails convergence of the respective rules of the game in the labour market and welfare systems.
The European Commission' s belief that, in all quarters of the Union, legislation will, almost as a matter of course, be interpreted in the same way, is what, within catholic circles, we term "foolhardy," and this is not allowed.
May God spare us the disastrous consequences of the bombastic principles that you have just put forward.
I know that there are also some women who do not wish to hear of quotas or even of positive action, because they believe that this positive discrimination humiliates them and marks them forever in their careers.
We have to be looking at what we do with the stocks of anti-personnel landmines in Ukraine, in Moldova, the ecological consequences of dealing with those stocks, the financial consequences of dealing with those stocks, the political consequences of dealing with those stocks.
Such European training is one element in ensuring that young farmers have the necessary knowledge of the CAP to make sound business decisions for the future.
The Union can only impose sanctions in the field pertaining to administrative law when cases are exposed.
It is important, of course, that the data is both of a biological and economic nature and the information to be provided from the various Member States must be standardised across the Community and, as stated by the rapporteur in her report, must be in compliance with international provisions.
I am waiting for the Commission' s report on the ultra-peripheral regions, which the Council decided should be drawn up by December 1999.
With regard to this matter, I would like to know who owns the Erika, because the idea of a legal person under our law is one thing, but there are always real shareholders in the background. Where are the Erika' s owners?
In future, the EU must take a far more multilateral approach when it agrees development projects and, furthermore, must coordinate more closely with the individual states in order to improve efficiency and use the funding more effectively.
I am more than happy for our House to be illuminated by the brilliance of our debates but a little real sunlight on our bubble of democracy from time to time would not come amiss.
For example, at least in the countries which I know well, I doubt that the intention, repeated three or four times in the Commission document, to reform 'Europe' s social protection, health care and pension systems ...in a climate of more cautious public spending' will meet the needs of those whose confidence we apparently want to win back.
As a result of that, a parallel health care system was put in place through the Mother Teresa Society.
In the light of this sympathy, I would like to continue my response as follows.
At the moment the list is, as I say, a negative list and it is added to as required.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Patten.
Let us grab our chance.
This brings me to the content of the report.
At the beginning of the nineteenth century, real per capita income in the world' s richest countries was three times higher than in the poorest countries. In 1900 it was ten times higher and in the year 2000 it is 60 times higher.
We must clearly set water prices which promote its efficient use but which, at the same time, safeguard the competitivity of the producing industries in the less-favoured regions and do not hinder their legitimate development.
We need to deploy the energies of the unemployed, the underused skills of youth and the experience of age to tackle these problems.
We want a true culture of competition in Europe.
If that does not meet with a positive response, the difficult issue of which of our lower-priority activities should be discontinued will then have to be addressed, not just by the Commission, but by this Parliament and by the Council too.
Some may be better than others, and some worse.
No longer should there be a place in democracy for the worship of, or for this fatalist approach towards, market forces as adopted by the liberals - and I am sorry that Mr Gasòliba I Böhm has left - as this will only lead to its ruin.
It must be pointed out that these programmes have not only been instrumental in structuring regional planning, but have also been vital instruments for economic and social cohesion in often vulnerable areas such as, for example, areas experiencing depopulation.
In April 1999, the Commission adopted new Rules of Procedure which introduced specific rules on repayment.
European taxpayers need to be re-assured.
It can only succeed if agreements are made which are solidly based on compliance with democratic principles.
I should like to welcome one or two initiatives that have already come from the Commission which will help us: in particular Commissioner Liikanen's commitment to having an innovative knowledge-driven economy.
I hope that this building will then be occupied.
I do not make this point because of any desire in the Prodi Commission to retreat from activities or responsibilities.
Past experience with ratification of European Union conventions in the field of judicial cooperation in criminal matters is unfortunately disappointing.
What is interesting abut this new legislation is that a specific legal basis is being created in order to combat scrapie.
We agree with the common position but we also accept several of the amendments tabled, whose aim is to improve it.
Following completion of the service, it is not acceptable for the third-country subject in question to remain any longer in the Member State in which the service is provided.
The embargo on Serbia must be lifted and Serbia must, in turn, release its political prisoners.
The programmes clearly have to take the annual budgetary contributions into account.
Finally, we call for a change to the balance and method by which the funds are disbursed.
You have the option of selling off everything and getting into cash, but that would be to waste your research into the winners.
The many ideas which have been expressed here could be put into three broad categories.
These Amendments may in large part be approved and will be supported until such time as an overall solution can be found.
It is quite clear that a lack of coherence of development policy with trade policy diminishes our development efforts and must also diminish the political regard of the developing countries for Europe and our fine words.
More specifically, however, I would like to express our delight at the fact that, after such a long time, Israel and Syria are on speaking terms again to resolve their differences of opinion.
They are having to choose, for example, between reducing taxes or reducing the public deficit, but clearly avoiding any price rises, or - so there is no misunderstanding - creating a special reserve for future situations in which welfare may be needed, given the EU' s population growth.
We have to ensure that the whole system of traceability, of following the animal from birth until slaughter and right through the whole food chain, is part of that confidence-building mechanism.
It has been communicated explicitly and repeatedly to Kosovar leaders that international support will depend to a large extent on the way non-Albanian minorities are treated.
On the contrary, I would say that, although many areas of European policy leave something to be desired in terms of coherence, in this instance I would claim, on behalf of the Commission and the Council, that we have developed a very clear, transparent and coherent policy.
Most SMEs have in fact less than 30% of the market share.
We have noted increasing levels of apprehension and disquiet, even within regions where unemployment is quite low and prosperity very high.
It has been my proposal that Parliament must recommend an activist economic policy consisting of two main parts.
The prescribed objectives are most certainly viable and, in the Netherlands, a value of 86% recycling has now already been achieved.
Is it prepared to maintain a democratic veto based on population strengths or is it still moving towards a simple majority vote of Council members, rather than a vote reflecting the population in Europe which they democratically represent?
I hope that this debate contributes to reminding Member States of the importance and urgent nature of this initiative.
The question before us now is what can the Commission do to provide more practical support for his Holiness, the Dalai Lama' s, proposal for a peaceful solution to the Tibet affair?
Mr President, as others have done, I should also like to congratulate Mr Andersson for the report he has produced.
We are all immigrants, if not ourselves personally, then through one of our relations or ancestors.
I should now, Mr President, like to bring up the subject of INTERREG and to thank the rapporteur, Francis Decourrière, in the same way that I thanked Arlene McCarthy, for the quality and relevance of his work.
The Commission particularly welcomes the inclusion of provisions that deal with new or modern investigative techniques, given their effectiveness in fighting the form of crime that is best placed to take advantage of the opening of borders - organised crime.
I must say, however, that, there are discrepancies between the countries in the north and south concerning water, and that is why the matter cannot be dealt with in the same way.
Thirdly - and perhaps this should be the first objective - the projects should principally be aimed at the complete rehabilitation of people and families, because man is not made for the law, but rather law is made for man.
But, on this issue, I do not see any room for soft law which is why in the transition period there will be total adherence to the current financial regulation until that law is changed by due democratic process in this House and in the Council.
I believe that Mrs Theato' s report and her proposal can help to reverse this very process and to make clear that the European institutions take steps to ensure that European money is employed in a targeted manner and that no fraud is perpetrated here.
So, the changes that we seek to make - as I say consistent with the very strong and clear recommendations of the Committee of Independent Experts - are not negative in any way at all.
Unfortunately, what is most interesting is that the report, which purports to be concerned with a combined strategy for modernising social policy, instead proposes an extension of traditional social policy and more supranationalism in the social sphere.
.
Secondly, the new Convention allows for regional assemblies in the six regions, which would allow us to be much more specific in our work.
The challenge we have is to bring them together in the final version of the Charter.
This is a dimension which it is difficult to go beyond within the framework of the European Union, and especially within the framework of the Council.
Mr President, I rise as other Scottish Members of this House, representatives of Scotland, to protest against anything that lead to a decline in the quality of rural life in remote parts.
Malta and Cyprus have asked to join the Community.
Your Parliament may consider measures appropriate to counter that situation and then, Madame President and only then, may your Parliament consider interfering in the constitutional affairs of a country of the European Union.
Anything related to economic growth and infrastructure usually scores quite highly, but social goals and environmental causes often cannot count on approval.
. Mr President, I would like to thank the presidency for the work it has done to prepare for Geneva on subjects like racism, civil and political rights and the right to development.
For example, France, the Rhine valley and central Europe recently suffered flooding.
Mr President, Madam Commissioner, congratulations, Mrs Lienemann on an excellent piece of work.
Mrs van der Laan' s report - on which she has lavished a great deal of hard work, and for which we are indebted to her - proposes that we should grant discharge to the Commission for 1997.
And that is why we came to the conclusion we reached yesterday morning.
Madam President, to follow on from the point that Mr Lannoye made: Mrs Lucas was arrested just outside Glasgow for protesting against the Trident base at Faslane.
I must not overlook the fact that 1999 marked the beginning of the 1999-2004 parliamentary term of the European Parliament, that it was the year in which the new Commission took up its duties and, as a consequence, the year in which a Commissioner solely responsible for the areas of justice and home affairs assumed his responsibilities.
Firstly, to reserve the acquisitions made thanks to LIFE funds exclusively to public bodies, subsequently, following invitation to tender, to entrust the management of these sites to authorised nature conservation associations.
We have condemned Basque and Irish terrorism.
Furthermore, it is important to remember that 2000 will see the start of the justice and home affairs negotiations with the first group of applicant countries and I anticipate that we will be in a position to make substantial progress in preparing the negotiating dossiers on the second group with which it was agreed to open accession negotiations at Helsinki.
The new agreement provides for a development budget of EUR 13.5 billion over the next seven years.
This issue needs to be explored further in both cultural and practical terms.
Budgetary and exchange rate policies were responsible for maintaining internal and external stability.
You know that there is a Parliamentary delegation chaired by Mr Méndez de Vigo and a Committee on Constitutional Affairs where these issues can be debated at great length.
I am awaiting with great interest the results of the eighth survey, which, according to the scheduled timeframe, should be being drawn up by the staff now, in January, and for adoption by the Commission in March 2000, to see whether the latest trends are confirmed.
As to the healing effect of alcohol - to which, I believe, Mr Posselt also made reference - I could not agree more with him: I think that a good bottle of wine can be extremely good for your health and is also socially extremely pleasant, and perhaps Mr Posselt, Mr Andersson and myself could meet in the bar of this Parliament one of these days to share an aquavit.
A foreign policy presupposes that one has a clear definition of oneself and of one' s own interests.
Mr President, I was booked on the same flight and I am rather embarrassed to admit that the airline was KLM, our national airline company.
There needs to be much more openness and transparency on this issue than there has been to date.
I nonetheless consider that the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference should be limited to questions which have to be resolved if it is to be possible for the enlargement to take place.
For our part, we shall be attempting to strengthen and consolidate the European position on cultural goods and services and on activities in this sphere, because we believe that this is an identifying feature which is crucial to the Union' s image and to the Union' s own particular identity.
The Commission considers it unrealistic and unnecessary to lay down standards guaranteeing that the least intensive water purification is adequate to ensure that surface water is of drinking water quality.
I would therefore like to extend my sympathy to all those citizens in the regions where the storms raged so furiously, and at the same time, from my position here in this Chamber, point to how important it is to support these regions and people.
But firstly, these sanctions have a far-reaching and adverse impact on many of the neighbouring states too, including Macedonia, which find themselves in an extremely difficult economic situation as it is.
Likewise, we cannot simply record the rise in xenophobic feelings in Europe and the increasingly common discrimination without taking wide-ranging action.
You then spoke of their relations with the third country members of the Atlantic Alliance or associate members of the Western European Union but which are not members of the European Union.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must say that your comments have not satisfied me at all.
Never before have so many international treaties been ratified by so many countries.
What of the human rights of the millions of French people who voted for the National Front and who are deprived of any political representation and vilified daily, as they were on Monday on the television channels of the state to which they are required to pay taxes, when the simple expression of justifiably exasperated views by one of our colleagues, Mr Le Pen, is used as a pretext for iniquitous condemnation, in violation of the law and in violation of all notions of justice, fairness and morals, and when attempts are made, in violation of the clearest legislation, to deprive this representative of millions of our fellow citizens of the mandate which he has been given by their vote, not received as a favour from the government.
I agree with this request.
Another essential point that must be included in this text is the express exclusion of vintage vehicles from its scope.
We want to bring this across in Parliament.
I hope that has an encouraging effect on the Cyprus talks.
The Lomé Convention is a unique partnership; but if it is to be truly effective it needs to extend beyond the discussions within the context of Lomé and involve a participation of the WTO and a partnership in all other international negotiating fora.
These proposals must include a number of elements, an overview of the cross-border or transnational priorities and strategies, a description of the measures necessary to their implementation and an indicative financial plan.
It could be a landmark in the development of a social Europe, providing we take it seriously and do not allow individual Member States to baulk at the steps that must be taken to implement it.
Mr President, during the most recent meeting of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, I was pleasantly surprised.
There is to date no conclusive outcome to this legal challenge.
Mr President, earlier this week President Prodi announced that one of the Commission' s strategic objectives for the next five years would be to aim for full employment.
We also feel that, if Turkey wishes to move towards sharing the fundamental values of the European Union and the general framework of the European Union' s relations, regardless of whatever special bilateral conditions may apply to its own relations with any other country, it must in general act in accordance with the basic standards demonstrated by the European Union in its foreign relations.
As we look at the Europe of networking which you describe, it is very important that Europe concentrates on its core business, that we have the courage to suggest areas where Europe may perhaps stand back.
Those districts which have not suffered losses will therefore see their incomes decrease in any case.
In this respect, the Commission document has shortcomings, as it makes no recommendation to the Member States to simplify procedures and national legislation for the presentation and examination of projects by the national authorities, and for their funding, execution and monitoring.
All in all, I am indebted to the rapporteur and the Committee for this report.
It is therefore easy to understand the public' s lack of interest, given the construction of Europe which is going on behind their back and in areas which are not really of concern to them.
But what will those limits be?
. (EL) On reading the Commission' s statement on social protection, which is animated by so many good intentions, one wonders whether its authors and the working people in Europe are living on the same continent and in the same social reality.
However, the Commission is maintaining its efforts with the support of UNMIK for this project.
These offences must be punishable even if they relate to banknotes and coins denominated in euros but not yet issued and if they are committed before 1 January 2002.
The next item is the report (A5-0108/1999) by Mrs Schroedter, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the communication from the Commission in the field of the Structural Funds and their coordination with the Cohesion Fund: guidelines for programmes in the period 2000-2006 [COM(1999)344 - C5-0122/1999 - 1999/2127(COS)].
As for subsequent phases, in other words the preparation of national and regional programmes, it is not enough for this objective to be taken into account at national and theoretical level. It must also be specifically included in the programmes establishing the CSF at national, regional and local level.
In this regard, it must be remembered that energy policy remains within the national remit.
Finally, I thank you again for this debate.
The Council in its common position states that the European Union governments must take account of the principle of recovery of the cost of water usage.
This message must be very clear; this is how we explain the way we shall vote tomorrow.
I do not want to minimise these, but progress is being made as far as strand A cooperation with candidate countries is concerned, even if the problems related to the management procedures and to the scale of the projects still remain.
The events of the past couple of years have certainly created an awareness and concern about the real threat to food safety and public health.
On this point I will give my opinion on something which Mr Karas said.
There must therefore be measures to improve the quality and competitiveness of Europe' s tourism and, to the extent of the possible, safeguard the operation of companies.
This governance therefore needs to be a sensitive governance so that we can actually work together and understand that each of the institutions in the European Union, has its relevant role to play.
We must also ensure excellence and transparency.
Of the EUR 1 919 million requested, only EUR 784 million have been granted.
Question Time (Council)
I come, of course, from a country that is proud of its car industry and of its commercial success both in Europe and in third countries.
It is important to us that the economies in the region can stand on their own two feet again, which can quite easily be done with the aid money.
For the day has dawned: two irresponsible politicians, consumed with a lust for power, are selling Austria' s image, political role, and to some extent even its economic interests, down the river!
However, the full potential of these values will only be realised if they are set out in comprehensive detail in and form part of the Treaty and, in the final analysis, represent legal claims on the part of individual citizens.
I think it very important that we should emphasise straight away that a number of demands are to be made in connection with enlargement as well, specifically that the new Member States should arrange to be represented by both men and women so that in that way they are improving the status of women in the countries concerned.
Madam President, this afternoon, in this Chamber, reference was made to a series of reports on the BBC Today programme this morning, which claimed that certain of my colleagues were running personal lobbying companies or somehow misusing their position as Members of this House.
So I believe that we are conducting this battle to assist our fellow countrywomen to achieve decision-making power, to gain responsible posts in the political arena, but I believe that it will only be achieved if we completely change the way people think.
I therefore think that this issue should be included as a matter of urgency in the IGC agenda, and in itself this justifies a thorough revision of the Treaties.
Europe must prove - in the Balkans and the rest of the world - its ability to extend the area of security, peace and freedom and its ability to take a leading role on the international stage.
That is why the European Union must make its position clear regarding the current situation in Austria.
What we need most of all is to have the courage to undertake a critical examination of the Union' s policies to date.
France contributes 17% of the European budget yet will receive only 8% of the regional Structural Funds.
It was also essential to ensure that better account is taken of the development priorities of local operators and that the benefit of LEADER + funds is not limited solely to agricultural regions with a low population density.
This then is the idea of monitoring implementation.
Moreover, whilst there may be talk of integrating the Western European Union into the European Union, there is no longer any mention of Article V, which is, of course, of direct concern to us. Article V touches upon the wider defence tasks and not just Petersberg.
Portugal should not take a leaf out its predecessor' s book.
Programmes and objectives usually turn out to be far too ambitious and their results are not always satisfactory, while the lack of transparency and complexity of the plans often allow considerable scope for mismanagement and even fraud.
What the government can then achieve in the way of job creation will be cancelled out by the unfavourable developments for small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular.
I also discussed this matter with the Swedish parliamentary Finance committee last week.
Mr President, I just want to say that, as I was walking in this morning, I noticed two people smoking outside the Hemicycle.
The division of Yugoslavia is probably a historical fact that we shall have to accept, regardless of the mistakes that may have been made along the way.
Each and every one of us knows that any other region of Europe could meet with just such a fate tomorrow.
Charges brought against loyalists in 1999 totalled 193, while those against republicans totalled 97.
Mr President, we are partly to blame for this war.
Marketing, reservation and transport are expected to be the areas of profoundest change and improvement.
Straight questions must be asked about the real end-use of animal meal, for example.
If we assume that, on average, a car has a life of eleven years, do Members, indeed does anyone, believe that we should wait for eleven years before we get to grips with this problem?
Food security programmes in central Asia began in 1996, following two previous years when the European Union provided food aid in kind.
I would slightly disagree with the terminology you used when you said, Mr Radwan, that it is time for the needs of citizens to be taken into account rather than exclusively the need for competition.
For instance, the Financial Controller granted a positive a priori visa in most of the cases of mismanagement or irregularities recently uncovered.
We shall address this problem and check all the translations.
It is therefore down to the states and regions to ensure the quality of the data provided, and our committee considers that additional efforts must be made in this respect.
I object to the fact that we are cutting back the time for Question Time; it is one of the few occasions when backbenchers have a chance to get their time on the floor and I do ask you to extend it to one and a half hours as is on the agenda.
We have often asked for a basic timetable for this revision and we have received no reply.
On behalf of the combined European right, I must say to you, Mr Solana, as High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy, we do not have confidence in you.
There are many people who maintain that they entail major risks, while others question how large the risks involved in these substances really are.
I would like you to bear in mind that yesterday we had a very worthwhile day of discussions and dialogue with the representatives of the 15 national parliaments, which were represented by competent and exacting delegations.
(The Minutes were approved)
It should not be about greater integration of the EU countries in the form of a federation but about using our economic potential across national borders.
However, I cannot accept that an EU body should intervene politically in the internal policy of one Member State.
As things stand, OLAF is in a vacuum and can do as it pleases.
This attitude is turning Europe into a machine which exempts investment income from tax and shifts the whole tax burden to commercial income, with all the social and even moral consequences which that implies.
Madam President, as you know the Cederschiöld report has been taken off Thursday' s agenda. That ought to mean that we have more time on Thursday.
Could the Commission please tell Parliament the circumstances and the groups within Article 13 (TEU) likely to be effected by such an exemption?
I believe the European Parliament should call for the Assembly to become truly parliamentary, urging all ACP countries to send members of their national parliaments as their representatives, so as to strengthen their own democratic fabric.
The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
It is not its job to subrogate to people in their choices or, failing that, reinvent a new variation on a 'sense of history' which perceives self-determination as a one-way street.
We cannot be prohibited from carrying out transfers when our economy and the development of our regions depend on it.
Employers would be lost without immigrants.
As a result, we are now in the absurd position of negotiating from a position of weakness on vital aspects such as wine and agricultural production within the framework of an agreement which we have already signed.
Relevant information must be given to prospective unit-holders in a fund in a language which is readily understandable to investors in the host country.
The German approach is no guarantee that this radical movement will not grow again.
Culture and training simply do not exist in this paper, despite the fact that we need to create a real area of training and culture in Europe.
We must use dialogue at every political level, including of course dialogue with the national parliaments.
And how should we achieve this?
It is therefore also being requested that ISO 9002 certificates possibly include the finer details of these activities in the form of annual reports and company analyses.
I wish to confirm the great importance the Commission attaches, and shall attach, to the urban dimension of our cohesion policy.
I am thinking specifically of Total-Fina in the present instance.
Doubtless there are also a lot of protest voters on the scene that have wanted a change in Austrian policy for a long time.
More work on the social and economic impact of tourism is currently on-going with the international organisations, such as the World Tourism Organisation.
Bearing in mind that everybody has the right to social protection and a minimum guaranteed social income, I believe that we must not forget about those people who were not born in the European Union.
We have seen poverty growing in Wales; and growing still further since 1997.
Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to come and take part in this discussion.
The terrorist organisation ETA has, in its time, killed police officers and soldiers.
I found this to be an extremely shameful attempt and I am pleased that it failed, that the attempt by one large government and the delegates of a large Member State did not gain a majority, by which I mean the attempt to dominate the voting process of the European Parliament on grounds of the interests of its national industries.
As the report notes, the adoption by the Member States of tax incentives for SMEs in order to reduce labour costs would be an excellent way of promoting growth in employment in labour-intensive sectors and, consequently, in the tourism sector.
I can only ask you again to bear in mind the technical nature of the Commission proposal and to wait for the substantive proposal for a new directive on additives in feedingstuffs to address wider issues.
Are there any objections to this oral amendment?
The implementation of Agenda 2000 in the agricultural sector does not ultimately require more money.
We should not be bribing these island peoples to cooperate in their own destruction, giving them money to absorb laws which are as alien to their culture as a black hole is to Mother Earth.
Mr President, I too welcome the presence of the High Representative and his availability to answer Members' questions this time round. On his first appearance in November this was not possible, although this was not Mr Solana' s fault.
An investment in natural resources, of course, but also in employment, since it has been demonstrated that an active environmental policy generated new jobs, as shown particularly by the great success of LIFE, a success with NGOs, businesses, local authorities and third countries.
In this context, Parliament has already played a key role in the discussions on the draft directive on copyright in the Information Society, which led to the approval of the Barzanti report in February 1999.
However, given the mandate and the final objective of the text to be submitted to the Heads of State and Government, this power must be exercised with caution and on a case-by-case basis.
These programmes have benefited Kyrgyzstan and to a more limited extent, Tajikistan.
The issue of taxation also seems to us to be absolutely essential.
It is, therefore, surprising that this topic has, to date, not been incorporated in a strategy and this is why the Commission' s notification constitutes a break-through in a way.
This afternoon I should like to share with you some ideas, particularly on the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
. (IT) Mr President, as the rapporteur, Mrs McCarthy, has already pointed out, we can certainly consider URBAN a success for the European Parliament with regard to the debate held last year on the reform of the regulations.
At the moment, there are no concrete proposals which would allow us to make adjustments under this Article, and unless there is such a proposal, we cannot move forward on this matter.
We do not agree with this type of tax because its application, in the event that it could happen, would not achieve the aims which Mr Tobin presented at the time and which the Left in this House wishes to revive.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like firstly to thank Mr Procacci for his report.
Finally, allow me to remind you that the third letter of the EDD Group to which I belong stands for 'difference' .
I acknowledge Mr Patten' s efforts in this direction, but what a pity that the governments of the Member States had not devoted as much time to sorting out their capacity for disaster relief and humanitarian assistance as they have in the dangerous business of creating military structures that will ultimately duplicate and undermine those of NATO.
We are dealing with a horrific story in Kosovo.
Although the Commission has itself approved the idea of legislation on proper administration, it has not now accepted a detailed proposal that has been made, but has decided to issue a whole set of additional guidelines on improving service.
Firstly, there is the Commissioners' individual responsibility.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
It is something that we can all support.
It has not, however, been possible to solve the problem of vehicles currently being used but which are already old and which cost far more to recycle.
Firstly, is the Council fully aware of and concerned about the fate of these prisoners?
And what about vehicles which are already on the road?
This cross-group support for the opinion is explained by the conclusions, which are devoted to the question of how issues related to regional policy, transport and tourism can be combined with action to combat all forms of discrimination and inequalities in connection with the labour market.
During the first and second readings of the 2000 budget, the European Parliament stressed that the new 'pre-accession' heading (B7-0), proposed by the Commission in the preliminary draft budget, should not be limited to the candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe and should also be extended to Malta and Cyprus.
You will be aware from the press and television that there have been a number of bomb explosions and killings in Sri Lanka.
I will turn firstly to matters pertaining to headings 4 and 7. It is quite simple: a special heading, namely, the famous heading 7, was created in Berlin, as part of the large Agenda 2000 package, for the applicant countries of Eastern and Central Europe, which are currently undergoing a process of transformation, and for these countries alone.
According to my group, this is excellent if, as a result of this, deprivation within regions, towns and population groups is eliminated or if health and the environment improved.
But complaints are made by private individuals about social welfare being paid in the post offices in Ireland.
I am glad to be here together with President Prodi and my colleague, Michele Schreyer, to present the White Paper adopted by the Commission this morning: "Reforming the Commission" .
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
It is already apparent that the financial resources currently available for Community assistance to this part of the world will not be sufficient for the magnitude of support that will be required in the event of permanent peace.
It is the very argument to conclude an agreement with Macedonia and not yet with Albania that cause us so much concern, so much so that a passive stance from the Union vis-à-vis Albania is really not acceptable.
We hope that one day it may become a symbol promoting the benefits of ethnic reconciliation.
And I say that, of course, because I come from Denmark.
At the same time the Commission is currently concerned about confining itself to core tasks.
The Commission must listen to it.
Our objective of minimising contradictions between development and cooperation policy and other policies has to be a valid objective, not merely within the European Union, but also at world level, given the increasing globalisation of the economy.
Our sole intention in tabling the motion is to ensure that the deadlines which were promised are now finally adhered to, and it is therefore important that we act as quickly as possible.
Truly European citizenship depends on our creating a real, visible area of training and culture.
It is nevertheless the case that not a penny more than what was allocated before the storm will now be freed up to demonstrate practical, active solidarity.
We are debating a highly controversial modernisation proposal for European monopolies law, that is Mr von Wogau' s report, and it is far more controversial than the vote in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs may have given us reason to believe.
The Commission is also of the opinion that a number of the amendments proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs would fundamentally change the content of the first proposal.
Because the issue is to be decided upon in March in the Council, Parliament has cause to adopt a position on the proposal now, so that the Member States have time also to take due account of Parliament' s points of view in the decision which has to be made in March.
However, instead of producing these events which we are condemning, migration must generate social, cultural and economic enrichment.
Secondly: a range of instruments has to be developed which allow for a flexible response and which do not force us into a situation where we need to choose between a kill or cure remedy or a complete stab in the dark.
Europe, the European Union, although it is very strong in economic and political terms, will remain shaky, weak and limited, perhaps inadequate, if we are not able to strengthen it from a social point of view.
From a political point of view, I always fret when people say, we neither need, want nor can we achieve these things!
Cuba is the last stronghold of dictatorship in South America and we must be mindful of this, with all due sympathy to Cuba.
Welcome
Why should it not be possible for the G7 countries, the other EU Member States, China, Singapore and Switzerland to come to an agreement on the introduction of the Tobin tax?
In order to achieve this, they must be given the necessary leeway.
The reason for this decrease is unfair competition from South Korea and Taiwan, in the case of steel, as a result of their different working conditions and conditions governing aid.
It turned its threatened loss of power into an "heroic battle for the preservation of values" and an imminent, pure-and-simple "decision between democracy and non-democracy" .
Of course, this cannot be done in one country; it cannot be done within the single currency area, but it could be done at international level with global cooperation.
Mr Katiforis has certainly not lacked the courage to set out the measures which, in his opinion, could help to improve and conserve the natural resources of the sea.
If we could communicate this it would be a very interesting thing to do.
Indeed, I am forced to observe that this was not the case when the Commission drew up its communication, published on 13 October last year.
There, the border question is obviously central.
Mr President, permit me to say quite publicly to Mrs Stenzel, who is a member of the ÖVP executive, that many MEPs are horrified that you have entered into a coalition with Haider, and that we wish to denounce you for doing so!
Question No 1 by (H-0780/99):
In addition, employment policy in general is also a factor.
It does not fall within my remit to make statements about internal political situations within one Member State or another.
It is, of course, thoroughly Orwellian.
We could not agree with a proposal like this, which challenged the authority of the European Parliament.
It would be Europe' s undoing if we were to end up with just a few multinationals and no future for small and medium-sized businesses in Europe.
Policy competition mainly occurs in the northern countries.
The question of how best to make further progress has so far been solved through the idea of holding an inter-institutional congress which will open up an unbiased debate adopting a broad perspective and involving representatives of different interests.
The next item is the report (A5-0105/1999) by Mr Koch, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to adopting a European Parliament and Council directive on the harmonisation of examination requirements for safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterways (C5-0208/1999 - 1998/0106(COD)).
I wonder how this will develop.
But I doubt very much indeed whether a European works council would have been able to change this company' s decision.
According to the information which the Commission services have given me, this legislation is not adequately applied in many Member States due to a lack of personnel, means and inspectors.
In our enlargement process in the EU we have rightly placed the emphasis on human rights and the protection of minorities.
As part of our proposals in this area - which I expect to bring forward at the end of this year - I will be examining whether additional powers in addition to infringement procedures need to be given to the Commission.
This is undeniable, even if you - or indeed we - consider that some of the results of these efforts, for reasons beyond Mr Kouchner' s control, have not been as effective as we would all have liked them to be.
We should, of course, not get overly excited about it.
There are risks, as we are all aware, but in the event there is absolutely no serious and persistent breach.
However, if we were merely to propose a simple moving of deckchairs, this would clearly not be enough.
Let us get rid of mismanagement and nepotism.
In order to fulfil his mission to restore and maintain public order in Kosovo, he needs, by his own reckoning, at least 6 000 foreign police officers.
The left-wing of this House does not want to continue along this path, rather it makes dramatic statements such as: what we need is state intervention, not the extension and consolidation of the market economy.
This Commission should not have to live forever in the shadow of the mistakes that caused the resignation of the Commission that went before it.
Mr President, the report deals mainly with formalities, in other words, the manner in which additives will be authorised. It is less concerned with the types of additives and how they work.
According to media reports the Portuguese Presidency considers that all Members should pay the same tax, to the EU. This is in conflict with the view taken by some Member States who wish to have the right to tax their Members in their home countries.
The second area is that of freedom: freedom to move and reside wherever one wishes in the Union; freedom of information; freedom to vote for all who have European citizenship - and that includes not just Member State citizens but third country nationals.
Unfortunately, however, people still have too many misgivings to the effect that this will be the kind of European institution that undermines subsidiarity.
The reform will lead to a gradual development - I stress this because I was particularly taken with this term, used by Mrs Randzio-Plath, and, moreover, I fully agree with it - of European competition culture.
At the same time, it is an especially delicate issue because it deals with the protection of the Community' s financial interests, as Mrs Theato has explained very well.
Another clear drawback in this area is the fact that the European Union itself is not a signatory to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, with all the additional disadvantages that this situation entails.
Portugal refuses to extradite him on the grounds that he would face a longer prison sentence in France than that provided for in the Portuguese penal code.
Last year, Parliament made an exception by agreeing that this expenditure should be placed in category four, and the two applicant States are not therefore being treated on an equal footing with the applicant States from Central and Eastern Europe, as they, in fact, should be, according to the declarations from the Helsinki Summit.
Mr President, like my colleague Mr Evans, it is a particular pleasure to rise and make my first speech to this House on this very important issue, especially since I represent a part of the United Kingdom, the West Midlands, which has hitherto benefited from Objective 2 funding in particular.
Article 73 c of the Treaty establishing the European Union provides scope for taxation on transactions.
These could include withholding Community financial support or recouping funding already committed to a Member State.
As it happens, we deal with the budgetary consequences, the Council makes the appointment.
As far as costs are concerned, I approve the proposal whereby Member States will have to ensure by 2010 that water pricing policies provide incentives for more sensible use of water resources.
We demand of the candidate States and of the countries with which the EU cooperates under the Lomé Agreement that they should respect human rights and show tolerance towards their neighbours.
But in that case, not only Sweden, but all EU countries, should then be subject to a total ban on alcohol.
The problem is one of both water quality and water resources, of which there is not a plentiful supply everywhere in Europe, especially in very dry regions.
We are going to create a management and control system in every Directorate-General.
I also value the ideas put forward in Amendments Nos 1, 10, 11, 14, 18 and 20, although the wording needs to be adapted.
Before discussing the content of the resolution, I should like to inform you of the elements which I took account of and which guided my work as rapporteur.
The Commission and Member States should be meticulous in respecting the TACs and the quotas fixed in accordance with objective scientific criteria. The same yardstick should be used for everyone.
In some cases these operations were prepared well in advance, fully involving workers' representatives, with due care being taken to search for the least damaging solutions.
Here too we should continue along the path we have chosen, strengthening and intensifying it.
The rapporteur, Mr Corrie, has already done so most expertly.
If you look at the UK consumer for example, who buys a Rover, as Mr Lange has indicated or for that matter any other make of car in the UK and who has for years been paying excessive prices for those cars, over and above comparable prices in other parts of Europe, why should they pay?
He will join us and speak as soon as he arrives.
Spurred on by Amnesty International and others, one of the first decisions I took as Governor of Hong Kong was to abolish the death penalty.
I advocate transparent, joint and efficient development policy.
I also support a gradual development in the direction of covering environmental costs and the costs of resources.
I do agree that the section on officials has, in fact, been completed totally inadequately.
We all know to what extent women are under-represented in decision making at all levels because we have the statistics and they speak for themselves.
Therefore, the number of issues decided by a qualified majority will increase.
I start from the assumption that we should in fact introduce these.
The agenda is not designed to secure justice for the citizen.
Report (A5-0019/2000) by Mr Di Pietro, on behalf of the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, on the draft Council Act establishing the Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union (9636/1999 - C5-0091/1999 and SN 5060/1999 - C5-0331/1999 - 1999/0809(CNS))
Social policy is an example of an area in which the EU ought only to have limited powers, except where it is a question of freedom of movement for people within the Union.
We have more confidence in Eurojust, where prosecutors from the individual nations cooperate.
The common position stipulates a total appropriation of EUR 613 million for the period 2000-2004. This is not enough.
In areas of high seismic risk, it is not enough just to have secure, earthquake-proof buildings. Speaking as an engineer, I can tell you that we carry out tests to investigate the effects of certain risk factors in extreme circumstances.
Here, projects covering only one region or one country will not receive support; they will have to cover neighbouring regions in two or more countries.
It could be said that the omission gives the impression that the Commission too has no idea how to provide maximum coordination between European Social Fund assistance, which is subject to review after three and a half years, and the Member States' annual national plans for employment.
We have not considered it necessary for the Commission to regulate the very limited abstraction of water for whisky production.
Madam President, we have just passed a resolution which condemns the racist and xenophobic record of Jörg Haider' s Freedom Party in Austria, which has welcomed action by our governments to cut off political relations with any government of which he is part, and which sends our support to anti-racist groups within the democratic majority of the Austrian people.
For if we must preserve the shoals of fish, we must also preserve the ports and the fishermen.
This also covers persons from third countries and stateless persons.
The presumed killer, Sid Ahmed Rezala, is also strongly suspected of having murdered the British student Isabel Peake, who was raped and thrown out of the train taking her to see her parents, and another young woman, Émilie Bazin, who was found dead in Amiens under a pile of coal in the building where he lived.
They did not quite reach a conclusion on them but they certainly do not need nine months of further study.
In order to be effective, it must be well anchored in the Member States' national authorities.
Mr President, I respond to an invitation yesterday afternoon by the President of the House to speak on behalf of my group on a matter referred to in the Minutes.
We are not just talking about human rights and the environment where Tibet is concerned, rather it is about a unique cultural heritage that is also able to communicate important values such as peace, serenity, compassion - as the Dalai Lama would say - to us Europeans.
The crux of the problem is that all governments, and indeed all the European institutions, acknowledge the right of major corporations such as Total-Fina and its ilk to maximise profits whether it be harmful to their employees or to the environment.
What it does need are instruments that will enable it to put its competences into practice.
This is something which Parliament has said it wants to see added.
The two processes are separate processes.
One: definition of political priorities and translation of these into practical measures through the focused use of resources.
Only on the strong foundation of the single market will the agenda of enlargement be successfully achieved.
Moreover, it was this situation and this interpretation which led the Council to take the decision it took in Luxembourg at the end of 1997, when it decided to take the first steps in the accession process for the Republic of Cyprus to join the European Union.
This Parliament anxiously awaits this complete reform programme.
Leopards do not change their spots.
We have asset inflation of global proportions.
My party can be relied upon to see to it that my country holds firm to the course of European politics and continues to be rooted in the European community of values!
Mr President, our committee views these issues very differently and, to start, I will speak from the point of view of research.
Indeed, it should be possible for a third-country subject who has legal status in a Member State to be admitted to other Member States too.
In addition, I am of the opinion that funding for a town or neighbourhood, especially where Community contributions are concerned, should incentivise.
I think that we need, first and foremost, to bear the main point of reference for any international community in such cases in mind, i.e. the resolutions of the United Nations.
We already have legislation.
From this point of view, the common position is weak.
Mr Papayannakis, the only answer I can give you is that the Greek Government does indeed need to step up efforts to introduce computerised statistical records and to set up structures so that the programmes implemented have the quantitative results which you mentioned, and so that monitoring can be carried out and used as a basis for formulating policies.
The Commission has decided that it is neither appropriate nor feasible to devolve risk management power to the authority.
This endangers the stability of the international system and jeopardises peace.
Why do we not appoint a parliamentary committee of inquiry or get Members of Parliament involved in the team of experts which has just been announced by the Commission?
The proposals made by a few MEPs impact greatly on this system.
Nevertheless, the proposal for a directive merely aims to allow them to move to another Member State when they are posted there by an employer based in their country of normal residence. This means that their scope for movement is limited to the duration of their posting and only to the Member State to which they were posted.
The European Union has an important role to play in the peace process, as all sides - Palestinians, Israelis, their Arab neighbours and the United States - have acknowledged.
There must also be savings.
I see the process not quite but almost as important as the content and we will put all our resources into participating actively and we invite everybody to participate.
Mr President, international cooperation is certainly needed in order to tackle both cross-border crime and crimes which are committed in one State, but the evidence for which is to be found in another.
I should also like to remind you that the idea of setting up an observatory is nothing new.
Mr President, these are no arbitrary objectives. These are articles, statutory articles, which form part of the European acquis established by law with which the European institutions and Member States must comply.
The authorities of the Republic of Cyprus itself have clearly recognised that our relations with them regarding their accession to the European Union have been positive.
In actual fact, it is the other refugees, namely those outside the quota and those not covered by UN aid, who need aid the most.
I am delighted with the compromise motion for a resolution which we have reached with the GUE/NGL, Greens/EFA, ELDR and PSE Groups.
For years we have been told over and over that the economy must be liberalised.
A series of communications will therefore follow in the coming months.
Allow me to remind you, however, that use of the precautionary principle does not need to be synonymous with there being a total ban.
I have long believed in the need to set out our views on human rights issues, including Tibet, firmly and candidly to the Chinese authorities.
Instead it is appropriate to await developments in relation to the common position on the amendment to Directive 90/220, which is currently in second reading in Parliament.
We improve the policy framework for trade and investment development.
They have referred to rural and sparsely populated areas.
However, the resolution of the European Parliament does not question the reasons for the outcome of the Austrian vote and offers no options for resolving the problem.
Who wishes to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party to propose the addition of an item on Cambodia?
Pension funds which suffered from rules on where they could and could not invest, as required by of our government bonds, made returns of 5.2% a year, barely half the 9.5% annual returns made by free funds between 1984 and 1996.
This is part of the solution.
The report that the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights has substantially amended with regard to its original formula, taking up many of the amendments we have presented, still leaves room for a certain confusion, in relation to the way in which the interception of telecommunications and video conferences are to be regulated.
So I think that we urgently need to get to the point where we can pass a general political resolution in which we can get to the heart of the matter, especially the worrying things which we are discussing, particularly logistics support for the information services by the United States and Great Britain, generalised corruption in the regime linked to multinational oil companies and numerous other extremely 'spicy' matters which we need to go into.
Nevertheless, the legal mechanisms that exist in the Treaty are weak, difficult to apply politically and legally, do not define the powers of the institutions and do not guarantee fair legal treatment for processes of major importance. Suspending a state is just such a process, and is to be condemned.
This must naturally lead to a reformulation of development goals and strategies, together with a transformation of institutions and processes so that both women' s and men' s priorities and needs are better reflected.
I repeat that Member States will have to make up their minds.
In reality, however, the Commission communication does not contain a single provision for the Member States with these integrated approaches for social and employment policy aspects.
Middle East peace process (continuation)
Mr Cashman said, which is right in a sense, that words are no substitute for real action.
Thank you for your statement.
However, in Spain and the other southern countries, which have an unusual climate, the management of water resources require political action in order to rationalise their use and other cooperative measures.
I assume, therefore, that the EU will take the initiative and see to it that there is a total, worldwide ban on the manufacture and use of that substance.
It will include a proposal on general food law which will embody the principles of food safety such as responsibility of feed manufacturers, farmers and food operators, traceability of feed, food and ingredients, proper risk analysis through, for instance, risk assessment - that is, scientific advice and information analysis - risk management - that is, regulation and control - risk communication, and application of the precautionary principle if and when appropriate.
Question Time (Commission)
How many more seabirds are to die before shipping companies end the practice of cleaning their tanks at sea which, as our resolution points out, causes far more pollution than any Erika-type disaster?
What happens in another part of the world affects us.
Thank you, Commissioner.
TV pictures of the damage done to your coastline and wildlife, in particular birds and the already dwindling fish stocks, have brought back memories of similar British disasters, such as the Torrey Canyon in 1967, and have prompted many British volunteers to help.
Indeed, in terms of development aid policy, I think that Europe has absolutely nothing to worry about for the simple reason that our behaviour in this area compares very favourably with that of the United States.
The evidence of the court is that that is happening now and it points to steps which can be taken now to alleviate the problem.
The problem so far is that taxpayers paid when something went wrong.
The vote will take place at 6.00 p.m.
Members of this House are today speaking out against a telegram from Mr Prodi to Chancellor Schüssel which, quite obviously, is not a demonstration of sympathy but rather a political manoeuvre.
Subject: High infant mortality levels in Kosovo According to the most recent UN information forwarded to the World Health Organisation, Kosovo has the highest rate of infant mortality in Europe. About 50% of premature babies do not survive and the war has resulted in a massive increase in the number of miscarriages.
Is there a Member who wishes to speak on behalf of the PSE Group in favour of this proposal?
In point 18, Parliament suggests publishing a compendium of examples of successful initiatives.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
It was bizarre to see the President of the Region of Valencia praising the work of the Spanish Government, as well as his own work, although it was irrelevant to that event.
It is not by chance that the Committee on Culture' s decisions are constantly ending up in the conciliation procedure, for one or other Member State in the Council always holds culture hostage to other interests.
Therefore, in my capacity as president of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and, of course, as an MEP, I hope that a large majority of this House will support this report and that it will be well implemented by the Commission.
The unions will have something to say as will industry.
I must not go on about books, but I have just been reading the book by David Landis Barnhill on what makes some countries prosperous and some countries less prosperous and it is interesting to see there the importance that he attaches to gender issues, in the economic prosperity and political stability of societies, going back millennia.
We now come to the third proposal which is for 'Environmental disasters in the waters of the Danube' , a proposal tabled by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
Mr President, I want first of all to say thank you to Mrs Lienemann for her report.
But what have we seen since then?
The Commission' s current President, Mr Prodi, and the High Representative, Mr Solana, have put forward ideas along the same lines.
This is a real political objective, alongside economic and monetary affairs, drawn up in collaboration with Member States, regions and local communities, with the Commission itself responsible for issuing guidelines in order to show Member States what direction to take in order to achieve the objectives required in the context of programming.
Because our borders do not stop at the Mediterranean Sea.
It is true that a number of countries in the European Union have already introduced quotas, and you yourself made reference to Belgium, Commissioner, where it has not really taken off.
Are there any comments?
I remember when people came into this House lobbying us in the national interest not to allow this liberalisation.
Well, he was wrong, and I pay tribute to Philip Lowe and his team who have worked so successfully behind the scenes to conclude a new Convention in very difficult circumstances.
Madam President, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Radical Members.
Mr President, Commissioner, my thanks go to the rapporteur for handling this very important report, because developments in the social and economic situation will decide to what extent the citizens of Europe will judge that we have been successful in our work.
A second aspect worth highlighting underscores the need for EU policy and the policies of the Member States to complement each other more.
Thirdly, I would like to know whether the Commission has looked into the effects its new approach will have on industrial strategy.
We will have a budget of approximately EUR 4 million for 2000 which you will hopefully approve.
The establishment of a European Public Prosecutor' s Office and the definition of offences common to all countries of the Union is doubtless a good idea, but it is impossible to consider putting this into practice without having first introduced a European legal system.
I do not know whether this is to appease Mr Kinnock, but I happen to know Mr Kinnock.
I attach great importance, ladies and gentlemen, in a spirit of discipline and transparency, to our nonetheless retaining some financial strands for matters relating to the exchange of experience and information, and not to propaganda, and to the implementation of networks ensuring good communication of best practice within the Union.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Moreover, we are trying hard to attract qualified women to participate in our consultation groups.
Our vote in no way constitutes an endorsement of the signatories to this compromise resolution, their present policy or their future attitude should the threat of the extreme right become more serious.
These goals will be more easily obtainable only if the Intergovernmental Conference, which will draw to a close within the year, results in constitutional reform, providing the Commission with real and adequate powers so that it will no longer merely implement Council decisions or Parliament' s codecisions but will have to perform the role of a real European government.
But we should not lower our standards too much either.
He is not stupid. Certainly not!
I should therefore like to draw your attention in particular to the inclusion of increased numbers of vocational training measures, especially in areas with high levels of long-term and youth unemployment.
In accordance with this principle, the Spanish delegation of the European People' s Party will oppose Amendments Nos 4 (Recital 21), 13 and 49 (Article 11(d)), since they imply a serious limitation in an area of management exclusive to the Member States, that is, the regulation of water resources.
Madam President, the presentation by President Prodi today has necessarily been a fairly broad brush affair.
The answer to this is that we know very little about this.
A return to the roots, at last, for a Community built on the basis of the determination to turn our backs on a past history marred by hatred and exclusion and of adherence to the humanist values of openness and tolerance.
But, obviously, as some speakers have said - and I thank all of you for your totally positive and relevant interventions - we cannot allow a situation where, within one, two or three years, we have to say once again that we have not done what we should have done.
I thank the Commissioner for his reply to my question.
I am disappointed in the EPP.
I thank you for giving me the opportunity to take part in this debate.
We also, however, deplore the fact that your Parliament should consider interfering in the policies of an elected government of any country, especially one which is part of the European Union.
-
If not, will it explain how the Directive is to be complied with in this area?
I cannot accept that and on behalf of the taxpayers and the consumers of Europe I am voting against those amendments.
This applies, above all, to amendments from the Group of the European People' s Party but also, unfortunately, to some of the amendments from Mr Lange, as I see it.
The Union is currently restricted to a policy of stability which is certainly necessary but insufficient.
Relating to Amendments Nos 22 and 24
Yes, I am in favour of such a tax, but it is not what we are going to vote on tomorrow.
It rather seems like a contradiction in terms.
They cover provisions for enhanced regional cooperation including the prospect of establishing free trade areas between the countries of the region, though I must make it clear that there is no question of any attempt to recreate the state of Yugoslavia.
Furthermore, to compensate for the negative effects on the bird populations caused by the temporary disappearance of the mudflats, the intention was that other habitats in the estuary should be improved.
Neither outcome would be satisfactory.
The views I shall express today are not far removed from those I had then.
What we are talking about here today is not an issue which can be toyed with at leisure.
The calculations are in decades rather than years.
Naturally, sensible safeguards are required to protect specially sensitive information, but the cases where these are needed should be kept to the minimum possible.
For all these reasons I voted most decidedly in favour of the resolution before this House on the formation of the government in Austria.
Mr President, Commissioner, this debate is not a technical debate, contrary to what we may think.
A Cuban delegation attended the last meeting of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in Nassau, and Vice-Chancellor Dalmau spoke in the plenary session, engaging in a lively debate, and afterwards held conversations with many of us.
This aid for gathering timber is, of course, only the first stage of an aid package, which will take the form of aid for reforestation and aid for the development of rural areas.
That is positive.
How many people found work?
Nevertheless, I am a little disappointed that this is viewed from a bilateral angle first and foremost when, ultimately, there is in fact a major tripartite relationship.
The policy of cut-backs which has followed in the wake of adjusting to EMU has promoted the successes of right-wing extremism.
It is really strange that legislation that adheres to the codecision procedure when it is being debated requires unanimity for it to be passed in the Council.
I am very pleased that agreement has also been reached with the Council on minimum standards regarding examinations, although I would have preferred it if uniform, set standards and modules had been established, so that certificates would be of equal value internationally.
In his poem "Herinneringen aan Holland" [ "Reminiscing about Holland" ], a famous Dutch poet mentioned water too, which, with its never-ending trail of destruction, was feared and respected.
Mr President, Mr Alavanos' question naturally gives us food for thought on a wide range of issues.
I want to underline the fact that the existing legislation protects rather than threatens the right of every citizen in every remote area to have this service.
The Intergovernmental Conference 2000 will provide the appropriate forum for discussing this.
This brings home the connections which bind us together.
My question is this: there is a need for reform, due not least to the accession of new countries, and thus to the enlargement of the Union.
I think this is a very sad state of affairs.
Being able to scrutinise the administration effectively is the best protection against irregularities.
According to the terms of the directive, the employer would be simply required to request a service provision card for each employee concerned.
Secondly, a new procedure has been drawn up for cases of violations of human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law.
By this I mean, of course, the internal dynamics of the European Union.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, I should like to applaud your proposal for a radical decentralisation of the Union' s activities and ask why, then, you are proposing a legislative programme which would lead to centralisation.
Our committee emphatically rejected any attempt on the part of the rapporteur to use his report to introduce a different dimension into the debate on the economic situation in the European Union and to send the Commission and the Council the sort of message which the European Parliament should send out as the parliamentary body elected by the people of the European Union.
They have all been available on the Commission' s Internet website since August 1999 and the Commission is willing to provide copies to anybody who is interested.
The question is if we will undertake enlargement whether we are prepared or not.
In the new millennium, with new global problems requiring new global solutions, they need to give good arguments why it cannot be done now, rather than why it has not been done in the past.
Will they also take part in our defence policy?
The Commission has no instruments to enforce any particular decrease or increase in excise taxes on alcoholic products or on any other products.
This is an extremely risky strategy.
The minimum size must be respected and technical measures must be implemented if we are to eliminate the zero age.
Neither are securities lending transactions via securities clearing houses or exchanges - as opposed to the purchase and sale of securities - automatically covered by these institutions.
And indeed, on the subject of the balance of rural society, let us not forget that there is also the new rural development policy cofinanced by the EAGGF Guarantee Section, aimed at promoting reform in European agriculture and supporting the multifunctional aspect of agriculture.
I thought that it was quite superb.
We are very anxious indeed that the EU, too, should move in this direction, and this is also stated in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
We know, I know myself, that the weeks we have before us will be useful to us.
This will facilitate two activities Parliament is especially interested in.
There is no reason why, against this background, we should agree to grant discharge.
Mr Byrne, I ask you to accept and agree to the change of legal basis for the sake of transparency and good cooperation.
Thirdly, one of the best approaches to this issue is to integrate gender as an important and cross-cutting issue into the most popular courses for development officials and above all perhaps for the project cycle management course which is key to good management of projects on the ground.
Indeed, the White Paper envisages that the Commission will retain the supervision and central direction of the new system.
What is left of the right to engage in a critical study of history when authors and publishers are persecuted, as the young historian Jean Plantin was just yesterday before the Court of Appeal, in my home town of Lyon - he was the subject of an absurd, arrogant and offensive closing speech by the public prosecutor Jean-Olivier Viout, the smug expression of straitjacketed thinking and intellectual conformism?
If these criteria are not adhered to, then development does not stand a chance
From what I have seen of the reform process, it looks good.
This debate does in fact give us an excellent opportunity, Mr Byrne, to give the Commission a few things to think about.
INTERREG must, therefore, be an instrument promoting territorial cohesion throughout the Union if we do not wish to see a two- or even three-speed European territory.
During the Portuguese Presidency, we will be continuing discussions on the CAP, by adapting some of the common market organisations with a view to developing the Union' s rural areas in an appropriate way and guaranteeing an improvement in farmers' incomes, paying particular attention to measures which could have an impact on small family-run farms.
I should simply like to point out that this does not make very much sense at the present time because, as you know, it is still possible - and in fact will be until the end of 2001 - for LEADER II funds to be disbursed.
There is little disagreement amongst Members with regard to the first proposal.
The European Parliament was confident of reconciling openness to competition with the obligation to provide a universal service in a manner which safeguards jobs.
In this respect, the Commission' s proposals to amend directive 91/68 and delete the reference to scrapie and the report by Mrs Roth-Behrendt on the detection and control of TSE infections in general, comply with Parliament' s demands in the wake of the follow-up report by the BSE committee of inquiry and we expressly welcome this.
Mr Berthu, the Helsinki mandate is clear and we are working within this.
- (PT) Although this Community initiative, LEADER +, follows on from previous initiatives, it has some unique features.
Most Member States have been putting the brakes on, and I am pleased to note that, in my country, the new government has at long last completed something which should have been done a long time ago, and that the Belgian postal services and the Belgian government are now taking measures to ensure that the postal services are ready - at least partly ready - by 2003 to be able to stand up to the competition.
We must opt for a policy of cooperating in the development of our neighbouring countries in the East and the Mediterranean area, but we must do so with rigour, with economic means and in close collaboration with public institutions, which must cooperate in the protection of those citizens whose most basic rights are violated or who wish to emigrate in order to meet their most essential needs.
It is logical that the Special Representative of the UN in Kosovo is extremely dissatisfied with this situation, especially in the light of the endemic ethnic violence in the region.
Curiously, very important documents had gone missing from the cabinets, even from those of the President and of various Directorates-General, and this is clearly something which should not happen.
Moreover, I would like to say that I appreciate the remarks and observations that Professor Tesauro, Chairman of the Italian Competition Authority, sent me, and which I am sure Mr Monti will take into due account with a strong sense of collaboration.
Solutions cannot be found at the last minute, when the disaster is already in progress.
The trial took place behind closed doors and the defendant was only allowed one witness.
The alternative to successful management is the economic decline of the fisheries industry as stocks dwindle and demand for fish products is increasingly met by imports.
Finally we must ensure that all the parties responsible for disasters contribute to repairing the damage caused.
We know that until the year 2002 it will not be possible to fill some 1.2 million jobs in the field of electronic commerce because we do not have the skilled workers needed for this market.
We are now seeing the beginning of a strong recovery, which it appears may even be sustainable for a good while yet if we are prudent with our policies.
The challenge of enlargement is political.
However, there were obviously problems with the practical administration of the steel aid code over the past few years that were not brought fully to bear in the report.
(The sitting was suspended at 1.05 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
I am sorry that Commissioner Wallström, who is responsible in this area, cannot be here now because this is, after all, a very, very important directive on which the Commission has been working for a long time, and water protection legislation, which we are debating now at second reading, affects all the citizens of the European Union as well as all the people in countries wishing to join, who will have to comply with EU legislation once they accede.
The report comes just after agreement has been reached on the renewal of the existing Lomé Convention, which expires at the end of this month.
The Commission is aware of the request made by the Court of First Instance to increase its number of judges, but at the moment, the former is of the opinion that the proposed transfer of competence should be seen in the light of the study which I have just mentioned.
Nobody is asking for a Christmas tree.
I hope we can have, in particular, debates about some of the ways in which we translate these good intentions into practice on the ground where it matters, where people are still being tortured, where people are still being raped and are still being denied the sort of civil rights that this House takes for granted, as I do.
Water, in this context, is a commercial commodity.
Thirdly, to make prior coordination with the users and communities concerned a prerequisite.
This is an area in which the principle of subsidiarity applies fully.
The focus on the political precautionary principle means that we have being discussing it for almost two hours and this topic is now being viewed, so to speak, as more than an ordinary aspect of administration, even though, as we have been able to establish from the interventions, questions and replies, it is a topic which we believe to be of considerable importance.
This is especially necessary in relation to the forthcoming enlargement of the Union, and I should like to thank Mr Jonckheer who, in his report, has considered very thoroughly the problems associated with enlargement and with ensuring that the applicant countries are able to meet our criteria, as well as with ensuring common conditions of competition.
It is true, once again, and I accept this objectively, that there are still real legal problems.
The first relates to a large suspension bridge and whether or not tolls on it should be subject to VAT.
This is a common communication which was written by the three of us, David Byrne, Erkki Liikanen and myself, but it has been passed unanimously in the Commission today.
A mere fraction of the fantastic wealth accumulated by the big groups could lift these poor countries out of extreme poverty, but, until we have the courage to take on those big capitalist groups, we are just covering up the real problems.
Madam President, particularly out of respect for you, for myself and for this House, I did not want to explicitly refer to the issue in question. However, as a Member of this House, as general secretary of a party in the Basque Country and as an ordinary citizen of Spain, I will do so now because of the extremely serious accusations made against individuals and against parties like my own, which has a long democratic tradition, and which has scrupulously respected and defended human rights for many years.
So, whether this is to be a government programme or a potential programme, the breakdown of the document you distributed to us and of the accompanying speech is not much more than a list of good intentions, or rather a list of issues on the table. It does not, however, give us the impression that the Commission is taking a clear position on any of these points, but that it is just doing the European Commission' s duty.
After the resignation of a Commission and after a Committee of Experts has listed an almost endless number of deficiencies, it makes sense that Mr Prodi should have promised, on 14 September, to present this Parliament with a complete plan for reform by February.
I should like an answer from the Commission and the Council, for I consider it obvious that Article 31 does not supply the relevant legal basis.
I can assure you that as far as I am aware the President never likes to have a debate on issues in the middle of a vote.
Quite simply, I want us to be engaged with China.
An American company - Goodyear - with production sites in Italy, Germany and England, is reviewing its production and relocation, justifiably, in its own view.
Mr President of the Commission, if we do not manage to create true solidarity between the rich and the poor regions, then this Union will be all the poorer and it will not meet with the approval of the people.
There is an agreement on this issue which provides for a review in 2001 and this must not take place one moment sooner.
The issues that are really affected by lack of coherence are in areas such agriculture, trade, environment and biodiversity, but herein lies the real problem: these are the highly sensitive areas of policy within the European Union as a whole and in this Parliament in particular.
I am nevertheless extremely pleased that there was no majority for the amendments of Florenz, Lange and others who have actually sought to lever out manufacturer responsibility and make consumers solely responsible for the cost of environmentally compatible disposal of end-of-life vehicles.
I am also aware that we are probably also going to have to do something about the European Commission' s inclination to renationalise competition decisions and transfer them back to national level.
I can only say that I must discuss these matters with the national authorities and government of each country. I am not avoiding the issue but I must abide by the general Regulation.
Yet at the same time you are supporting Communist China and trading with countries which have openly violated human rights for decades.
Mr President, this Parliament is fragmented and divided.
Mr Newton Dunn, I would first like to say that I do not appreciate the kind of personal comments with which you started your second question, and I would be grateful if you could refrain from making such comments in future.
The last question concerns the amount granted.
This regulation is purely instrumental.
She ought perhaps to take some time to ask the erstwhile President-in-Office of the Council, who is not exactly a stranger to you, how this presumed lack of coherence has come about.
We are concerned with public official actions and events, rather than any possible underlying motivation.
My thoughts turn to what may become of this Community, of these conventions and judicial relations if, for example, a fascist country such as Turkey became a member of the Union. It would truly perplex me.
I know that action is being taken against this so-called tourism elsewhere, but we must remember the European Union' s responsibility at this level.
You have fulfilled your objective for today, which is to answer all the questions.
There is also no doubt that, throughout the debate this afternoon, we have heard differing opinions about the possible policies.
In reality, the motive underlying the increased interest in the Tobin tax and other sources of international finance in the mid-nineties was non-economic.
The Union will continue to play this role at the 56th session of the Human Rights Commission to be held in Geneva in March and April.
That an accident like this can happen at all is therefore an extremely shameful state of affairs.
In particular, as agreed at the Human Rights Council Group on 9 February 2000, the European Union intends to table draft resolutions on the Israeli settlements, Iran, Iraq, Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Burma/Myanmar, a draft chairman' s statement on Colombia, and, possibly, on East Timor, together with a draft statement on the situation in various countries.
These are fundamental issues which concern the very shape of the Statute for Members and of its role in the context of political society.
- (PT) The answer is neither yes nor no.
Mr President, as the representative of the Pensioners' Party in the European Parliament, I abstained in the vote on the EQUAL initiative because, although it provides more support than in the past for projects aimed at combating age discrimination, its proposals are not sufficiently trenchant or specific.
We will not achieve this just by undertaking a mini reform, as the Council has resolved to do, and that is why all institutions must come under scrutiny.
This Audit Progress Board will ensure effective and rigorous follow-up to internal audits.
But we must avoid lurching back into the old-style regulation, stifling individual initiative and enterprise.
If you had been there, I am sure you would have been ashamed.
It is good that spending has become focused, as otherwise the buckshot gets scattered to the four winds.
For example, the Commission, in its long term guidelines, says that the objective of sustainable development must be based on a strong sense of solidarity, supported by a commercial policy which takes common interests into account.
The proposals in this report are very welcome as an interim palliative, but Europe is a legal construction, its courts are central to its proper functioning.
Negotiations will start no later than 2002.
The spread of an epidemic as the result of bringing in one sick animal can have huge consequences for farmers.
I dare say this because I took the trouble to go into the field and collect information from, among others, scrapyards which already recycle car components successfully.

By regulating additives in feedingstuffs consistently, we can help significantly to restore confidence.
Yet a worrying situation is apparent.
The rapid alert system for feed is something that we have identified as a gap in the legislation.
In Italy, we have begun to withdraw and recycle around 80% of old cars, but there is a market problem which could trigger a crisis - in terms of unemployment given that in Italy industry often resorts to lay-offs and redundancies - and cause problems for workers in different parts of Italy.
I do not agree with the requirement that the Commission should intervene in regard to what is referred to as unfair competition between social and tax systems, if interference of this kind is to be used to stem the tide of new thinking and to restrict development and the process of making our social systems more efficient, or else to prevent a reduction in the unduly high tax burden in many EU countries.
I can therefore agree to Amendment No 10 with the proviso that the words, and I quote, "of the highest possible standard" are replaced by "are safe" .
Europe as an area of freedom, security and justice has so far been an area with no clear regulation in important sectors.
In fact, I believe that things have been done by the Commission, but there is still more to do.
Parliament has passed a resolution calling for the polluter pays principle to be applied in this instance and for both the shipowners and the owners of the cargo to be liable.
The simple reason for this was that social costs in the Netherlands were just too high in comparison.
What we need are visible rights for each and every citizen; the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be made legally binding for all the citizens of the Union.
This is in line with ongoing discrimination, which ignores Article 158 of the Treaty on island regions with regard to cohesion policies.
A new independent audit system service must be set up.
That is why we reject the policy of quotas and positive discrimination, whether it is in favour of women or supposed social minorities.
This was stupid of the old Commission, and Parliament was of no help on that occasion.
Commissioner, our environmental commitments are increasing in all areas, while the only financial instrument exclusively dedicated to the environment is decreasing.
Finally, but no less importantly, I would like to refer to the rapporteur' s proposal that, in future, this type of report should also include, amongst other issues, an analysis of the way cohesion is developing between the regions within each State.
Helicopters are therefore needed.
That is also something which is allowed under present legislation. I refer to the same Article 21 I referred to in relation to Mr Huhne' s question.
As for the arrangements covering European Union assistance to the western Balkans, Members will be aware that we are drawing up a new regulation to simplify and streamline their management and to put everything under one regulation.
There are also courts in Karlsruhe, London, Lisbon, Dublin and Edinburgh.
I am therefore delighted to see the proposals of the European Commission.
However, as Mr Marinho has pointed out, more is necessary, but that has to wait for the IGC,
Allow me briefly to comment on some of the assumptions and principles behind the present directive.
Mr Provan said that I often talk a lot about tourism and information technology.
I repeat that we have made our position known to the Chinese on Tibet.
Even babies born when due tend to be underdeveloped.
This House has expressed its opinion on the first issue and it will also do so on the second.
We enhance cooperation in all areas important to trade, including new issues such as labour standards and the linkages between environment and trade.
Firstly, I believe that this directive is excessively tough, simplistic and reductionist.
We have entered a new period in which there is a fairly full institutional framework and in which women are well represented in all sectors, education, work, culture.
We should have requested and rejected the first version of the convention, and then requested another: the majority on the committee did not want this and it is for this reason that we will vote against it, even if we hope that the amendments, which nevertheless improve the text, can be incorporated by the Council - we doubt that they will be, but hope all the same that they are.
It cannot create jobs by legislating to cut working hours, as if jobs were a cake that you carve up and divide between people.
We are not mad. What we have done is to work long and hard, with determination and, without a shadow of a doubt, with the support not only of yourselves but also of the Heads of State and Government of the countries which you represent.
The communication also states that the precautionary principle can be applied, provided there is a sufficient recognised minority of scientists.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, who really has chipped away tirelessly at this monumental task, in conjunction with the Commissioner of course.
One should, however, be very aware of the fact that if people are encouraged to apply for voluntary redundancy, the company will primarily lose those people who already work under pressure or who can easily find employment elsewhere, in other words, they are often the people which the company in question needs.
Commissioner, there are many experts who consider that the double hull is not sufficiently safe and propose the so-called 'ecological hull' in which case, in the event of an accident, the seawater penetrates the containers and, as a result of pressure, the oil is transferred to other tanks.
Secondly, the requirement of the double hull as a condition for access to Community waters must be enforced as soon as possible and cease to be put off indefinitely.
As far as I am concerned - taking into account my own concept of the construction of Europe and regional development policy in particular - this is a situation which I find unacceptable and I have every intention, as far as possible, with your support, of dedicating all the appropriations for which I am responsible to this improved social, human and territorial cohesion, particularly in order to prevent what I once called in this House a two-speed Europe, a Europe of wealthy districts but, at the same time, a Europe of impoverished areas.
According to the related provisions in the Treaties the responsible legislator for establishing its Rules of Procedure is the Commission itself.
The other reason is that this text does not, unfortunately, go very far.
Subject: Appointment of a European Union envoy for Tibet In 1998 the Tibetan Government in exile received over 4000 Tibetans who escaped over the Himalayan mountains seeking freedom and refuge at risk of life and limb.
Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Spanish delegation of the European People' s Party, the delegation of the Spanish People' s Party, with regard to Mrs Terrón i Cusí' s resolution on the area of freedom, security and justice.
We want less confusing control and more parliamentary control by the European Parliament, without hampering the work of Europol.
The result of this absurd game is not zero, but rather a minus number, as a consequence of the material, financial and human resources thrown away in a pointless enterprise.
Such recognisable and useful core tasks give the electorate a reason to vote.
I believe, Mr Kinnock, that notwithstanding all the success achieved on a personal level, the Commission still has quite a lot to do to satisfy our justifiably high expectations.
Throughout the negotiations, they were of great help and it must be said that the difficult and occasionally tiresome negotiations were nonetheless completed in record time.
It is precisely those who feel the need to control everything that end up controlling nothing at all.
We must adopt preventative measures which can stop disasters like this from happening in the future.
This integration has always been a priority for me as we would be doing the fisheries and fishermen of the future a disservice if we did not emphasise the need for conservation of resources and responsible fisheries in general.
But you never speak of restraining the income of shareholders that is infinitely higher from the outset and which increases shockingly every year.
We are ready for it, whether it is a matter of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, on which work has started, the CFSP and the consequences for the institutions of the current defence policy negotiations, or an extremely difficult subject on which we are continuing to work: reorganisation of the Treaties.
We must, some time soon, find the courage to tackle the whole Angolan problem more broadly and more vigorously.
While Commissioner Patten' s statement later this evening on the unfolding tragedy in Mozambique will be opportune, I would like to know if the policy planning and early warning unit provided advance information.
We are more in agreement with the amendment proposed at first reading.
Let me say in passing that this may seem an attractive prospect for a number of people.
We therefore await, and I await, the European Commission' s proposals on this matter.
The Commission appreciates Parliament' s efforts to guarantee that the so-called combined approach is given a central role.
Mr President, Mr Solana, you have the full support and confidence of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, but we would remind you of the huge responsibility which now rests upon your shoulders.
Mr President, on numerous occasions in the past I have disagreed with the rapporteur on her approach to regional policy issues. This time, however, I actually agree with her.
The presence of women in decision-making bodies, in particular, is a question of democracy.
This precedent, created on the initiative of the Portuguese Presidency, is a worrying one as far as the future of the European Union is concerned.
Thirdly, we must not, in turn, allow the position taken by the Helsinki European Council to temper our efforts to resolve the Cypriot question before Cyprus joins the Union.
I now turn to the controversial issue of asylum-seekers and refugees.
Parliament asked the Commission to waive its excessive privileges.
We look to the Commission also to ensure that there is matched funding for projects.
Together with Mrs Attwooll, I am in favour of collecting scientific data, and of fair and accurate checks, on condition that they do not vary according to the severity or the laxness of the administrations. I am in favour of enlightened management by marine scientists, like Professor Aubert, or others, that will make it possible to discover that the basic problems are not so much to do with industrial fishing - although it plays a serious and negative part - but more to do with plankton, the large underwater hot mass or cold mass rivers, which have a much greater effect than human influence.
I remind Parliament that in Article 152 the primary objective is the protection of health.
I shall mention three issues that our group feels are priorities.
The most remarkable thing, in my view, is the message conveyed by this proposal: that the Commission is anticipating the consequences of enlargement and realising that this necessarily, and virtually automatically, requires reform of the centralised system.
Addressing those problems is all the more urgent in view of the marked spread of cities into the surrounding areas and in view of the cities' historical and cultural role.
On the first question, I am going myself to Kosovo at the beginning of next month for another visit and I will certainly look into the allegation made by the honourable Member about the ECHO food package.
If, in this way, we can move away from the culture of the fifties and cross over into the next century, we are witnessing a very special moment indeed.
We cannot give equal treatment to countries which suffer from floods and droughts, such as the Mediterranean countries, and countries with northern levels of rainfall.
Madam President, to begin with, I would like to make one thing abundantly clear: Austria is not in danger of experiencing a resurgence of a one-party system or of a totalitarian system of right-wing persuasion.
Mr President, I would welcome some action in this area.
In addition, quantitative criteria (risk exposure) should be introduced.
This is what enables them to understand what is going on.
You can only farm if you have an adequate supply of clean water.
The main responsibility for increasing the use of renewables is to be borne by the Member States.
This sentiment is partly reflected in the common position which came about under British Socialist Presidency.
If we want a Union that is democratic and transparent to the fullest degree we will have to revisit this subject.
What do we ask of this structure - the European Community - which is, so to speak, ambiguous and unique?
This is probably the only way to achieve less fraud, less overheads, more transparency and more democracy.
Mr Prodi said he would act anyway, that he preferred to get things right, but that fear of not getting things right would not prevent him from acting.
They pointed out that the UK, France and Germany far exceed the other countries of the European Union at present in terms of population.
(End of fiction).
In this context the aim of stepping up networking between eligible zones under LEADER is very welcome.
Codes of conduct and ethical committees are not enough.
UCITS are a success story within the European Union.
We are talking about macrofinancial aid.
There is no doubt that the hearings of experts and the debates in committee have provided us with additional high-quality information.
Mr President, the UCITS directive has been an enormous success since it entered into force on 1 October 1989, mainly thanks to the excellent protection which it offers investors.
My next contribution to the debate is to turn my attention to globalisation and the WTO, which is seen by the ACP countries as an enormous danger to their development.
However, an exception should certainly be made in the case of Shell and BP, for they have changed policy and do not just base their sales on fossil fuels which are damaging to the climate, rather they also invest in forms of energy that have future viability.
We have therefore always argued for a progressive system of recuperation of costs. This system should take good account of social, environmental and economic effects, and its implementation should be modulated in accordance with differing geographical and climatic conditions.
Today, the Czech Republic is preparing to join our Union.
Thank you, Mr Poettering.
Or ships from Eastern Europe which moor adjacent to ships over here, with all the obvious risks that this entails.
The postal service is not just for Christmas.
The debate is closed.
Question No 40 by (H-0095/00):
In congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent work, we can but hope that the Commission will duly take into consideration the proposals Parliament has put forward, in accordance with the commitments made under the Code of Conduct on the implementation of structural policies, and that it will confirm, with fitting amendments, the transformation of this Community initiative from a mere instrument for internal redistribution to an opportunity to boost and enhance relations with neighbouring countries.
This is why I and my group are so firmly insisting on the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
So I ask that Ireland be remembered in this particular case.
I will now move on to the second issue which I should like to discuss with you. We have already looked at the bodies which we have set up but we also have a fundamental obligation in terms of our credibility.
I have two questions. Firstly, you mentioned that you will start a two-way dialogue with the citizens and I am already making a start with the 700 placement students at the European Commission.
Without any hesitation, the Russian Minister for Internal Affairs, Vladimir Rushailo, earlier this week confirmed the answer to this revealing question.
This particularly applies in areas within the EU where distances are great and where a lot of small companies are involved in dismantling vehicles.
Nobody has undertaken any studies on human tissue in that regard.
On the other hand, it does not accept Amendment No 4.
Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Representatives of the Commission, it is a black day for Austria and for Europe.
That would not be a good thing.
It raises expectations, but it can also lead to disappointment.
It highlights the increasing vital role of all the parties involved, chiefly those involved at a local level, who are the only ones able to define specific requirements and social problems, hence our determination to ensure that the partnerships to be established are true partnerships, which are decentralised and involve all the agents concerned.
Firstly, we needed to take action on a formal level in order to meet the requirements of Directive 96/35/EC, which obliges the Member States to appoint safety advisers and to organise the training, instruction and examination of these people but does not explain this explicitly.
The proposal, as formulated by the Council and subsequently amended by the Commission, provides for a convention based on three titles: the first lays down guidelines for ensuring the consistency of procedures and formalities for letters rogatory; the second lists a whole series of specific requests for mutual assistance and defines the formalities and procedures which must be followed in relation to these specific types of mutual assistance; the third and last provides for and codifies the procedures via which telephone conversations conducted by citizens in a State other than the one instigating proceedings can and must be intercepted.
The first is the potential for renationalisation of competition policy.
I think the fact that the Commission does not address the issue of cohesion is extremely serious.
As a result of this lack of sensitivity and solidarity, my vote has been consistent with what I have said, as an MEP from one of the dry Mediterranean agricultural regions - although one with prospects - namely, the Region of Murcia.
When talking about climate change, we have rightly referred to the greenhouse effect and the state of the atmosphere.
Hypocrisy to be regretted bitterly, in our resolution, that the agenda for the IGC is not equal to the issues, since in our haste, with blameworthy naivety, we are stopping ourselves forcing through this more ambitious agenda.
We believe the vast number of recommendations of the Wise Men' s report should be implemented.
The real percentage is much lower and it is this participation at the grassroots which we must promote in order to ensure a greater presence of women.
Our proposals are particularly concerned with the age of oil tankers.
We fully support the work of the UN through UNUA, given its specific responsibility to monitor the human rights situation in Angola.
As a result of the economic and political success in our part of the world, of which the EU is just one proof, and in view of the ever greater proliferation of our Western values, competition on the world market has grown considerably within the last few decades.
We have experienced this in our own national and European history. People can only enjoy lasting peace if they are living in a free and pluralist society where everyone is mutually tolerant.
Thank you, Commissioner.
We must continue to keep inflation under control, proceed with liberalisation, ensure more competition, encourage the dissemination of information technology and all new technologies; push forward with science, and push back scientific boundaries, and develop an appetite for being at the cutting edge of science.
The Commission should not, for example, take a stepwise jump from 350 grammes to, as some have suggested, as low as 50 grammes.
The solution to the Cypriot problem cannot be a precondition to Cyprus' s accession to the Union, as Mr Poos has reminded us.
This is what is and was meant by the call for a European Constitution.
It is a dictatorship and hence not a democracy.
The El Ejido incidents were shocking, as several Members have said in their speeches.
I know that this service is unprofitable.
We might well wonder why 76% of Belgian citizens have no faith in the justice system in their country or why 56% of French citizens have no confidence in their country' s system of justice, and 53% of Italian citizens have absolutely no confidence in Italian justice...
It would be very easy to have these programmes developed quickly and on time if you brought in outside professional experts but that would undermine the whole purpose of the URBAN programme.
How, furthermore, can a fund be created which will pay for vehicle recycling and manage operations within Europe.
Apart from that, the Tampere European Council has already indicated in which direction we, in the Commission, should go.
Nor did we vote for it because it is all too vague, all too pie in the sky.
My second country - I will be brief as Mr Patten knows this country very well - is Burma.
Mr President, my compliments to the rapporteur on a splendid report.
It would be very difficult for those who propose a 'yes' vote in any such future treaty to win the support of the Irish people if we lose our right to have our nominee to the European Commission.
Only then will we manage to achieve legal clarity and, more importantly, objectives which are enforceable under the law.
. (FR) The current difficulties faced by our social security systems derive mainly from a shortage of income as the result of unemployment, poverty and an ageing population rather than from excessive spending.
Packaging still accounts for a mountain of rubbish in Europe and is a burden upon the environment.
It is up to Washington, not us, to assume responsibility for a conflict which was triggered merely to serve its interests.
This is why the mid-term review, provided for under Article 42 of Regulation 1260/99, will be of considerable importance.
This is another example of the importance of moving forward with common legislation and ensuring that it is put into effect throughout the Union.
As such, while the precautionary principle does not involve the politicisation of science, as some have alleged, it does take us to the crossroads between science and politics.
Over the past year, more than twenty journalists have been arrested for alleged slander or criminal offences against state security.
The Commission is prepared to look at the possibility of making an introduction to gender and development, part of the so-called induction courses for new staff, something that has been done already but not, I admit, on a regular basis.
Additional measures are hence required, such as the obligation on the part of criminal investigators to give evidence in every criminal case in which their material is used.
Like yourself, he promised "less and better" , but Mr Santer finished up by having delivered "much more and much worse" , and I do not believe that you, either, can deliver the goods you promise.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Secondly, I would like to explode a myth, taking as a starting point an apparent paradox, which is clearly highlighted by Eurostat figures: the main international tourist countries are not those traditionally regarded as tourist destinations, but on the contrary the most advanced nations, whose quality of life is one of their main attractions and most heavily promoted features.
But I am somewhat surprised that the resolution which should bring this debate on human rights to a conclusion has been prepared in the foreign sector of this Parliament and that the aforementioned Committee, of which I form part, has not been involved in this.
In some areas competition is already taking place, as in the parcels sector and in the express services.
Amendment No 12 requires a larger budget than that stated in the common position.
We have been trying to reach a happy compromise between one interest - that of public order - and the other, that of finding the easiest possible solution.
The first legal challenge followed the start of work on the port of development in early autumn 1999 without the compensatory habitat improvements being in place.
Brussels knows best.
It is clear that this risk is greater when the investment is in derivatives not dealt in on a regulated market, namely the famous OTC derivatives.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what has occurred in a tributary of the Danube is considered by many experts to be an accident on an environmental scale as serious as the scale of the Chernobyl disaster.
A code of conduct for Commissioners and their private offices has been adopted.
However, I do not believe that we can assess the risk associated with the OTC derivatives, and I also think that as a European Parliament it is our duty to inform and impress again and again on consumers - who expect investment funds to be comparable with a traditional savings agreement when it comes to long-term security, and indeed that is why they were known as investment savings - that these products do not bear comparison and that is why we need a minimum level of protection.
Something more robust than a call to surrender to the fatalities of the market economy, something more decent than opposing dutiful aims but denying them the means of their realisation.
It will be just one of several instruments and hopefully you will be on our side in this.
A central plank of such a programme should be the raising of the level of investment of capital formation from 19%, to which it has fallen over the decade, to at least 23-24% of GDP, both in the private and in the public sector.
I should like to hope that such an appeal from Europe, with parallel emphasis on the difficulties that any further indecision would create for completing and implementing the association agreement, would be duly heeded and appraised accordingly by the Skopje government, so that it can respond appropriately, on the one hand, to Greece' s demonstrably conciliatory attitude concerning the specific issue, and, on the other hand, to the more general practical, declared intention and disposition of all the partners in the European Union, including Greece, to facilitate and support FYROM' s progress towards a United Europe.
That is a more reasonable system.
Generally speaking, there are two kinds of provisions: those that create an obligation to render assistance, such as the provisions on telephone and video conferences, controlled deliveries and on the interception of telecommunications; and those where no such obligation is created and only a legal framework is provided for Member States that wish to cooperate in the manner prescribed, for example, the provisions on joint investigation teams, covert investigations and the sending and service of procedural documents.
I doubt that any of you still believe that Kosovo can one day become part of Yugoslavia.
Although this leads to a disparity in excise taxes between Sweden and other Member States of the Union - and that by itself increases cross-border smuggling of alcoholic products - it is a legitimate instrument to decrease the consumption of alcohol.
As is known, the Commission should already, before the end of 1998, have tabled new proposals for a revision of the Postal Services Directive 97/67, guaranteeing the continued provision of a universal service, securing its economic viability, and regulating the gradual liberalisation of the postal services market while taking into account the consequences of this for all those involved, including postal workers and customers.
There are also proposed sanctions against companies which are involved in counterfeiting, this being a measure which we would encourage.
In matters of the environment, investment and ambition come in a variety of forms, and indeed must come in a variety of forms in the long term.
For this, of course, central policy must interact and be coordinated with development policy, so that the latter too can be reorientated and can work synergistically with the objectives of any URBAN programmes implemented in our countries, and so that it is not just using them as an alibi for its own shortcomings.
In the stance that we took at Seattle, why such a silence on the EU' s failure to implement the trade concessions for developing countries already agreed in the GATT, including for the crucial textile sector?
Nonetheless, liberalisation, which has a lot to offer to the consumer in terms of the price and the quality of the service, especially in the telephone sector, must cease as soon as the service provided becomes inadequate or disappears, when the firms profiting from liberalisation are not making money.
Considering that it is only today that we are dealing with a Commission proposal first made on 19 March 1998, even though Parliament responded relatively quickly, this time lag is a little too long.
The main argument put forward by the United States in this context is that the present provisions are, they say, incompatible with international trade law.
All this is to the good of the consumer.
At the beginning of this decade we must foresee how our institutions will develop internationally by its end, and notably where we fit into international monetary bodies, where we fit into UN agencies and so on.
Madam President, I believe I am expressing the feeling of a great number of Members of Parliament in most of the political groups when I say that the message which the President of the Commission sent to the new Austrian Chancellor a week ago created some unease.
The existing monitoring committee can only monitor the independence of the Director of the agency.
I have a serious problem with one of the central points of this resolution which we cannot accept as it stands.
Commissioner Nielson is flying out today. In European terms, this may be swift action, but given the emergency in Mozambique, this is probably very late.
Mr Alavanos, I would like to say that I have the greatest sympathy for the concern underlying the issue you have raised.
On the question of Angola, I think that we would achieve an initial result if we had a resolution at long last.
To conclude, Mr President, allow me to remind the House that the directive needs a makeover which will make UCITS even more attractive, but it does not need to be strapped into a European corset which will squeeze the life out of it.
My Group will therefore support the common position and looks forward to the enactment of the legislation which will provide us with yet another tool in our fight to make transport in the European Union as safe as possible.
Mr President, I would like to try to put a different perspective to this.
After Seattle I am sure you will appreciate the significance of these agreements.
Most of the report is about financial control.
The report that we are debating today intends to give political force to many of the recommendations of the Committee of Experts commissioned by this Parliament.
If we are to achieve a balance, a concrete action plan with a definite timetable is required.
This is an urgent duty for the EU.
The Commission' s objective for the next five years is to become a 'global actor' by showing 'genuine leadership on the world stage' .
Even if it were properly redirected this aid would not be enough to finance the most basic infrastructure for health care, education or drinking water supply.
As in any other party manifesto, it is full of contradictions.
I agree with your analysis.
I am somewhat surprised that paragraph 10 of the draft resolution does not appear to address the fundamental criticisms of the current centralised financial control function made in both reports of the Committee of Independent Experts.
Madam President, as a representative of the Freedom Party, I respect the concerns some of my fellow MEPs have with regard to the democratic developments in Austria.
Perhaps the Council will come to understand that cultural activities do the European Union good, not harm!
I should also draw your attention to the significance of the Barcelona process which should have a beneficial impact on regional cooperation.
These are the same areas, Commissioner, which already have to put up with the disrespectful activities of certain shipowners who empty the bilges of their vessels off their coasts, without any control whatsoever.
Result: a court action and repair costs greater than the cost of the programme itself.
How decisions are made is all-important.
Furthermore, requests can be made directly between the competent authorities without any need to go via central authorities.
Nevertheless, I do not think that this is the time to call into question the agreement obtained in the 1995 Convention which was, moreover, based on a timescale for negotiations of approximately thirty years.
Employment: for many years now, the connection between economic growth and an increase in employment has not been borne out by reality, and yet, despite the fact that it has been proved to be useless, the same recipe is being put forward again as a solution to the acute problem of unemployment.
Protection of juvenile marine organisms
Madam President, I should like to make a request in connection with today' s vote which I started to make yesterday during the debate on the EQUAL report.
My third criticism stems from the first two. The weakness of the analysis and the obstacles to the necessary changes have resulted in a project whose scope is severely limited by an overabundance of generalisations, a rather indecisive approach and therefore a lack of impetus.
What happens when more women take an active and equal part in political decision making?
You are looking to reassure the acceding countries, as well as European opinion.
Well, we cannot accept such statements.
It was a remarkable speech and I hope that Mr Gollnisch, who is no longer able to be with us, was able to hear that speech as well.
And yet, we keep on weakening the public sector and we are ready and willing to tighten competition policy yet further by qualifying public procurement contracts placed with public-sector corporations as state aid.
Vaclav Havel stated that, in Eastern Europe, the Communist regimes methodically destroyed civil society: national movements, churches and the independent trade unions.
A fair and, indeed, generous deal with them remains the key to lasting peace in the Middle East.
One of the EU' s most important tenets is the need for a common internal market.
With regard to the remark made by Mr Karas, I am under the impression that he is talking about the possibility of people from Poland being used as employees in his country.
Mr President, the present directive is important in so far as it helps prevent our being faced with hazardous waste from end-of-life vehicles and in so far as it promotes the re-use and recycling of materials from scrapped cars.
We must create forms of motive power which are not damaging to health and which are of such a kind that we can deal with the relevant waste, recycle materials and compete by means of environmentally friendly and fuel-efficient cars.
A better solution would be, as indeed the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism suggests, strengthened coordination between LEADER+ and the Community cooperation and partnership programmes, such as INTERREG, PHARE, SAPARD or MEDA.
Mr President, in the small amount of time allotted to me, I would like to welcome the Mrs Lienemann' s report and remind the House of three principles, to which all other principles must be subordinate, which are clearly expressed in the rapporteur' s amendments: water is not a commercial product, but the property of all the peoples of the Union; the ultimate objective is to eliminate all pollutants in surface water and groundwater, and to inform the public so that it can participate in the recuperation of water and not use water excessively given that it is such a precious commodity.
There are other issues that should fruitfully be looked at, especially before such a large widening of the Union to so many new countries.
As I have said all the Northern Ireland parties are united on this issue and those responsible for this cod quota regulation should reconsider this decision which can only spell not conservation for the fish but ruination to Northern Ireland fisheries which will affect all the fisheries of this Union.
Mr President, concerning item 11 of the Minutes on the order of business, we agreed yesterday to have the Bourlanges report on today's agenda.
Obviously, such matters should be handled at world level, but the current international regulations of the IMO are far from adequate and are far too loose, and neither our own countries nor the Community have tried determinedly to make them stricter, despite previous disasters.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
Furthermore, not all Member States have abided by the Court of Justice' s verdicts with regards to the lapsing of the work permit requirement, and they still have a multiplicity of unacceptable barriers in place in respect of cross-border services; barriers that are often impossible to overcome, especially for the smaller companies.
Would you be so kind as to write to me so that I have proof with which to tackle the competent authorities of both Air France and the French Government?
It is also worth mentioning that this is a mainstreaming programme, because there remains a shortcoming in the report.
Despite everything, we are being forced to recognise that the resumption of the peace process is largely due to the work of Washington.
The Commission, in my opinion, has shown a clear and unprecedented commitment to change and for this they are to be congratulated.
Commissioner, thank you for your answer. However, I asked this question because we are rightly concerned that the report on the third framework programme for research contains a project entitled 'International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor' .
In order however to strip back those obligations to their minimum, we are not just talking about it; we will be appointing in the very near future a deputy secretary-general, an additional deputy secretary-general with the specific mandate and mission of identifying best practices and spreading them throughout the Commission and of ensuring a radical reduction in the procedures which generate so much paper, so much bureaucracy and I must say so much frustration, not only for the citizens and businesses of the Union but for the people who work for the Commission too.
(The House rose and observed a minute' s silence)
We believe in Europe, while it seems that others have started the process of breaking up the Union.
Have the Council of Fisheries Ministers and the Commission assessed the impact of transferring the Portuguese quota for ICES zones XI and X and CECAF zone 34.1.1 to France (5000 metric tonnes per year overfishing) on the ICES zone VIII anchovy stocks and their responsibility for the current situation of the anchovy stocks and the possible social and economic impact on this fisheries sector in the future?
But then again, the central theme of the liberalisation of the postal services is employment.
The application of the acquis communautaire has created serious problems for the Cypriot economy, especially in agriculture. It entails the liquidation of the public sector, and it dislocates and destroys the developed system of social solidarity that exists in Cyprus.
We need to be assured that consistent under-performance must lead to dismissal.
Unlike the previous speaker, who has now disappeared, my group is strongly in favour of a European Public Prosecutor.
The dioxin scandal brought home to us that we have to get out of this mess once and for all and regulating additives in feedingstuffs is a step in the right direction.
We need a system which provides incentives and promotion and we need to see this promotion based on merit.
In the autumn the Commission will report back on the progress made in this respect.
I am sure that, with the willingness that you have shown today, the first thing you will do, in this new climate of understanding between us, will be to take account of the motion for a resolution which we will submit to you.
If we look at the democratic stability of the region, it could perhaps be said that it was the break-up of Yugoslavia that caused the current situation, but let us not get involved in interpreting an international development.
There are already some ex ante controls laid down in article 4 of the directive.
I think that the report drawn up by the Wise Men has been useful and I think that it is also useful for this Parliament - as already stated by Mrs Morgan - that we ourselves should ask for expertise from outside for once to see how our administration is run.
Too much of what takes place within this Parliament is not transparent.
We know from our own experience that freedom and the ability to decide are not given freely but must be fought for.
Mr Berenguer Fuster, we shall check all this.
There, however, we are concerned with that particular area, whereas it may be said that the present communication concerning the precautionary principle is horizontal in the sense that it concerns the full range of specific technical areas that are of political concern.
On the other hand, we are witnessing the birth of a political Europe, which entails a collection of shared values which we all agree upon, and a European Union at the service of the citizens.
Might Mr Kinnock be able to throw some light on the matter this evening?
So the Council is naturally worried and is seeking to establish sanctions, primarily criminal, applicable in all the countries of Europe, against offences of this kind.
The Council therefore reiterates its opinion that fishing pressure would be greater and more damaging to population numbers than the solution which was eventually chosen.
I am also delighted that he based the report on a report which was written by myself as rapporteur under the previous Parliament and has partly followed the gist of this old report.
I would therefore ask the Commissioner: can you not in fact do anything to stop us repeating our follies here in Europe?
We clearly expect a political stance to be taken with a very firm deadline of the preparations for the autumn session of the International Monetary Fund. We therefore demand, if this motion is adopted tomorrow, that the Commission and Council appear before Parliament to tell us what positions they will take on this occasion.
I will perhaps say this differently from Mr Tsatsos and Mr Brok who are your direct representatives but it is also probable that, in many cases, we will say this together.
The former President, Mr Gligorov, can take special credit for this, and the current President too has already adopted the profile of President of all Macedonian citizens, so much so that the European Union should only be grateful to have him as interlocutor in the Balkans.
At the moment, the Court of First Instance has to wait a very long time for its judgements to be translated.
(The sitting was closed at 11.15 p.m.)
From that perspective, what I am saying here is of deep relevance.
I just want to highlight three areas among many where we need quick progress.
Mr President, firstly I must thank Mrs Belém Roseira for taking part in this debate and for her interesting speech on the subject.
Madam President, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, somehow or other, today' s agenda has come full circle.
However, on a general level, I would say that in all cases it is the Structural Funds expenditure which must be additional. This is how, provided that the Member State does not reduce all its own expenditure, the Structural Funds can be added to the national expenditure and we can consider that the additionality principle is respected.
Secondly, all the authorities must act immediately. Coordination between them is the key to combating this type of xenophobia and racism.
Yet it is not just a question of who does what, as one of you said very clearly and forcefully.
I shall only add that it would be the least that Total could do to compensate for the direct and indirect damage caused by the oil slick.
Let me illustrate this with a topical example.
I would like to highlight the issue of human rights.
Now I have been told that if you have a difficult debate you know you are in trouble if half the Luxembourg Members are in the Chamber at one time - and they are.
We made explicit reference yesterday morning in our statement, as did the President this afternoon, to the fact that we share the concern demonstrated by fourteen Member States in their statement on Monday.
Mr President, I voted for the Procacci report on rural development, not only because I endorse the major policy lines of the LEADER programme, but also because it complements the URBAN programme, which I spoke about earlier.
. (DE) Madam President, I have an oral amendment which is in fact a clarification, because the passage concerned has been formulated differently in various translations.
This will only be true, of course, if the data can actually be obtained because, as rightly pointed out by our rapporteur, the Commission' s proposal does not establish any element of compulsion on the Member States.
Secondly, the motion does not say that we want a solely European initiative.
Being much more democratic means greater participation by the European Parliament and allowing the Commission to exercise even more - yes, more - its ability to take the initiative.
I notice that you said this particular issue was not currently on your agenda for the next IGC but if some people wished it, you would consider it.
Mrs Schroedter' s report marks a further step towards the transparency and effectiveness of structural aid.
What is being done may well be very important, but it is still not sufficient.
My question, which has not been answered, is why, when the European Parliament is looking to increase appropriations to fund cultural programmes within the European Union, the Council and the Commission are cutting back on appropriations and at times cutting them out altogether.
Paragraph D of the draft resolution requires a more coordinated and more open economic policy at EU level.
The Commission' s services are drawing up implementing rules in order to ensure the practical application of this instrument.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
We have also voted in favour of paragraph 13.
Tomorrow, we might opt in favour of a weak and permissive framework which ruins the future of our children.
Of course, I am only an enemy of the fishing industry as much as anybody who recommends to some people not to saw off the branch on which they are sitting.
I look forward to many similar debates to this over the next few years marking, I hope, the success of what we are trying to do in the Balkans which, for me, remains the single most important litmus-test of what Europe is able to do on its own doorstep.
We consider that, given the hydrological characteristics of Spain, where transfers of a structural nature are carried out, the authorities of the country should make decisions with regard to its own resources, and these decisions should, of course, always be taken in accordance with the quest for cohesion and the rational use of water.
Cosmetic, medical and other products cannot be excluded on the grounds that they cause no harm or are not dangerous.
Today, we thank the Austrian people for this democratic triumph which is important to all nations within Europe and to anyone who feels particularly strongly about freedom and freedom of speech.
I regret the confusion which arose recently due to internal documents from the Commission being wrongly used, so creating uncertainty about the Commission' s attitude to the issue.
I say that in friendship and honour to my friend and colleague, Franz Fischler.
We must ensure that unemployment rates continue to go down across Europe, confirm the trend in privatisation and deregulation, encourage the insertion of information technology and knowledge of the Internet, show that e-Europe is a good initiative.
The Council must start by at long last ensuring that EURODAC is adopted in order to create the basic requirement for classifying asylum seekers.
There is still no uniform criminal legislation on counterfeiting and there are 15 different national systems.
We have expected the citizens to take on board the transition from EEC to EC to EU.
Mr President, firstly I would like to extend my heartfelt congratulations to my colleague, Mr van Hulten.
The detailed action plan on food safety in the White Paper sets a precise timetable for action over the next three years.
Let me reiterate the comment which Doris Pack has just made and stress that we, the Members of the European Parliament, must fulfil our own obligations in this regard, while ensuring, of course, that we are not the only ones to do so.
Since then, expectations have been high.
In 1998 and 1999 EUR 3.8 million was granted to Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan received over EUR 35 million, mainly for food, medical supplies, water and sanitation.
Not once does your twelve-page document mention the national parliaments even though they comprise the elected representatives of the people.
Having received a delegation from the Austrian human rights association here yesterday and having seen what has happened in the province of Almería, it is easy to understand that we could easily have prevented this resurgence of racist hatred.
It would also be a betrayal of the people who will be handling the new, unfamiliar notes.
This is what we shall be trying to achieve during the Portuguese Presidency and we hope, at the end of it, to be able to present the result of our efforts to this House.
I would therefore ask Parliament and the Commission to give the matter their full attention.
There are those who are in favour of new agreements between Israel and Syria, but only a few focus on the real problem at the heart of the Middle East issue.
The aid which Union Member States allocate each year to the sectors under consideration reached a total of EUR 95 billion in the period 1995-1997, including 40% allocated to the manufacturing sector.
This is a great deal to build on such fragile foundations.
The FVO is made up of independent scientists and vets and so on who travel from some location where there is an airport - quite clearly we have an airport in Dublin.
In no case, however, are they programmes for the integrated development of the selected areas and they do not create permanent jobs in the countryside because most of the activities there are not productive in nature.
And it is to be welcomed that criteria such as human rights, democracy, rule of law, and good governance are more firmly anchored in this new treaty than they were previously, and that earlier colonial relations no longer shape most of our relations to quite the same extent, rather, we now set greater store by these political criteria in this respect.
It was clear too on the need to separate internal audit from financial control.
So I thoroughly recommend and hope that the Parliament will support this excellent report.
Can I thank Mr Cox for underlining the virtue of following absolutely the recommendation of the Committee of Independent Experts and introducing a system which will end definitely with the revision of the financial regulation and the end of centralised ex ante control.
However, there are six, seven, eight, nine perhaps, subjects which it would be very appropriate and useful to address.
Hence, what we must focus on today is the question as to how state aid is to be managed in future.
We have made many promises in this regard, but I believe we shall succeed in keeping our promises even though we have a very delicate path to tread.
Even within my group, the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, there were, of course, differences of opinion.
As the President of Mozambique, Joaquim Chissano, remarked in a dramatic appeal, each passing day may mean death for many Mozambicans.
Ladies and gentlemen, the aim is that in the next year, and after a unanimous decision by the Council, we should progress to a first level of coordination, exchange of views, listing of social problems and creation of a data base for the better coordination of policies.
Only one manager has participated in gender training, and for half a day.
This can be left as the Commission has proposed with the Member States ensuring the appropriate collection points for draining cars.
Cultural cooperation - and this was also mentioned earlier - truly creates identity, far more so than any transport directive, however important it might be.
I am aware of the Member' s competence on these matters.
An 's' has been omitted and instead of reading 'la propuesta nos parece correcta' , it reads 'la propuesta no parece correcta' which is completely the contrary.
I think it would be appropriate to begin thinking about these things before disasters happen.
If we are to succeed in persuading a sceptical European public of the merits of further European integration, we must be able to demonstrate that we are as active in the devolution of unwarranted EU powers as we are in the evolution of new EU powers.
As Paul-Marie Coûteaux rightly said in his intervention yesterday and in his proposed amendments, one wonders exactly what political coherence this blank cheque represents.
Brussels should make decisions on fewer matters and hand over more decisions to the people, the regions and the Member States. The only decisions which should remain with Brussels are those concerning cross-border issues which the national parliaments can no longer legislate on effectively.
In this respect I have observed a significant consensus in all the interventions.
Since the beginning it has served the interests of a few dozen large financial and industrial groups and their pressure groups.
In this light, the events we are seeing in Austria must be seen as tragic.
We believe this requirement is unrealistic in view of the very high cost and extremely long timescales involved in restoration to a near pristine standard.
The ACP-EU Joint Assembly is a unique organisation in world politics.
I would just make one point: we cannot be 100% sure - I am not at any rate - that one only has to press a button in Ankara to set the wheels in motion in Cyprus.
It seems to me that we need to give this some thought, as these cases will no longer fall to the Court of First Instance of course but to the Court of Justice as draft decisions.
Are we waiting for the next accident to happen?
One has to content oneself with the idea that all means, however slight, must be seized upon in order to set up better legal assistance.
How do we implement what the Treaties say in all those words about development assistance programmes?
Can you explain why the approval given to the assistants was withdrawn at the last minute?
In short, we claim that we want to help developing countries and, at the same time, we encourage the liberalisation of trade, which we acknowledge runs counter to that very objective.
The situation is more akin to a black hole in space, sucking in masses so powerfully that not even light escapes.
We will cut them off.
There must therefore be total transparency for producers and consumers in the area of food safety.
Sometimes it is worthy of satire and merits discussion, but I digress.
Thirdly, we fully agree that it is necessary to reform labour relations in Europe, but that clearly means for us that we must protect and enrich the human capital.
Let us not forget that, to date, LIFE amounts to only EUR 100 million per annum, i.e. scarcely 0.1% of the budget of the European Union.
Many European cities are divided into neighbourhoods characterised by high-added-value activities and high-income residents and other districts characterised by low incomes, high unemployment, substandard and overcrowded housing and high levels of welfare dependency.
That is what I should like to say by way of introduction.
The cause of the disaster must be sought in the weakened structure of the oil tanker.
I have absolutely no doubt about this and I believe it is an essential point.
The report also accepts that some flexibility may be adopted, and grants States the option of adopting or applying alternative standards.
As matters stand, Turkey has to take seriously the fact that there is a risk of Cyprus being integrated into the European Union, and this would provide opportunities for prosperity and security for the Greek community whilst the Turkish community, whose level of prosperity is already far lower, would fall even further behind.
But I have taken on board your suggestion and I will give it further consideration.
I would like to end on the following point. Just as the White Paper on food safety was approved last week and released to public opinion with a clear deadline stated, we would request the same in connection with the new White Paper on the reform of the Commission.
I do not believe that there is any real disagreement between us on this.
This sixth periodic report which you assessed as positive on the whole, Mr Berend, is a good basis for our thinking, for us all and for myself.
The debate is closed.
In general I trust that Members of this House will share my pleasure that Macedonia has reached this stage relatively rapidly.
On the one hand, binding and enforceable rules apply to equal pay or additional old-age pensions and on the other hand, programmes are used to offer incentives with regard to non-discrimination or social exclusion.
Does it seem normal to you that the Commission should attend such an absurd event organised by the Spanish Government?
On the basis of a report, the human rights organisation Global Witness concluded that the western world is turning a blind eye to the activities of Dos Santos because it is fishing for lucrative oil contracts.
The majority of you hold these debates in your constituencies and regions.
They are free to choose only between your brave new world and denouncement.
The decision to include a clause obliging ACP countries to take back illegal immigrants entering Europe is worrying and will have to be implemented with extreme sensitivity.
The directive applies to complete cars, that is to say cars with none of the essential components missing.
This is not in itself anything dreadful, but we should prioritise particularly the safety aspects for goods transported by road, rail and inland waterways and incorporate these, as part of the acquis communautaire, as soon as possible and present them to the acceding states.
I am informed when I take a closer look that the information is in fact quite higgledy-piggledy with bits coming from here and there and no clear, proper economic and biological picture emerging.
I agree that it is - as has been said - a good and competent piece of work, which has been carried out under difficult conditions.
I hope that we will soon be able to agree a code of conduct on relations between our institutions which will include updated rules on access to documents.
Finally, I do not think that any of you believe that the present status quo will bring minimum stability and hence minimum development to Kosovo.
The amount of budget required by our cities - where 80% of the European population live and which increasingly represent both the best and the worst of what we have in Europe, I believe, clearly indicates that the European dimension should be taken into account and that this URBAN programme should not be used as an excuse not to analyse in detail, not to prioritise and, therefore, not to introduce an infinitely greater budgetary contribution into programmes which affect the cities, by means of European funds.
The document that has been distributed contains inaccuracies, because the decision has been taken to postpone the debate.
Some sectors of the food industry clearly need better regulation and that is clear on the issue of feed and animal feedingstuffs.
This is an illustration of empty pledges not necessarily leading to good results.
We can observe the consequences of migration from the countryside in several areas of the Alps and they are devastating.
The government is talking to trade union and Goodyear delegates in Italy as well, in an endeavour to find a solution to the closure policy unilaterally adopted by the North American multinational in Cisterna di Latina, an area of Central Italy which has already been affected by other restructuring operations.
With every tide, the volunteers, members of the armed forces and firemen remove great pancakes of this thick, sticky, black tar.
In short, we must not allow real capital and speculative capital to become so remote from each other, because otherwise we shall be steering towards situations which we experienced on this continent time and again during the last century and which had catastrophic results.
It groups them together and that is very important.
In addition to the bilateral meetings with Syria, I hope that Israel will also enter into negotiations with Lebanon within the foreseeable future and that, in the framework of economic and regional cooperation, a multilateral approach will appear possible.
That situation will be compounded by social reclassifications resulting from European Union enlargement, and we must therefore make provision for the economic regeneration and social cohesion of our cities.
I want to emphasise that, as early as 1997, the Commission proposed a special clause concerning manufacturer' s liability and that the Commission entirely supports the common position.
I have always believed that the old line - i.e. not to admit Cyprus under any circumstances until the political conflict has been resolved - has a weak point in that it does not provide the Turkish community on Cyprus with a convincing incentive to properly involve themselves, for, with this strategy, the Turkish community would not need to do anything but sit back and wait.
Another challenge is presented by technical development.
Mr President, I should also like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner for good speeches on their part which I think provide hope for real optimism, especially given the will and commitment radiated by both women.
This was the first pillar of my recommendation.
We will continue the interinstitutional dialogue opened with the Committee for Economic and Monetary Affairs, and, at a more general level, with Parliament.
Then they too will be prepared to really support enlargement and help to achieve it.
One wonders whether he gets any time to sleep, Mr President.
We have been saying this ourselves since back in 1992: this is the topic of this debate.
You know that they are concerned about the risk of being isolated and I should like to say that I understand their wish to participate with you in bringing this to a successful conclusion.
The red-green federal government has not exactly covered itself with glory in the debate on the End-of-life Vehicles Directive.
Indeed that is the only way to build up regional economic circulation in the under-developed regions that will protect people' s social welfare and boost purchasing power.
The present proposal is therefore staunchly inclusive and reciprocal in character, accepting responsibility for a variety of interests in a way which imposes obligations upon others.
Finally, we have three questions for the Commission in this regard. Firstly, we need the Commission to give us, on a regular basis, the list and the amounts that other donors contribute.
That is the sort of exemption we are talking about.
Rather, the way in which these aid measures have been cobbled together smacks of amateurism to me.
The profit motive is very much behind the present food safety crises.
I very much hope that you, Commissioner Monti, will support these amendments, and I look forward to your comments and to finding out where you stand on this matter.
The Commission thereby gave a practical demonstration of its commitment to one of the essential pillars: that of the rule of law.
The European Parliament can play its role by taking the initiative, even if it does so timidly, on this subject. However, I agree with the previous speaker that, if paragraph 9 were challenged, this motion would clearly lose its substance.
The fact that the next round of Structural Funds 2000-2006 includes the INTERREG initiative is I believe, a very clear indication of the importance which is attached to it by national EU Member States.
Amendment No 59 introduces requirements to the effect that the list of prioritised substances should continually be reviewed.
We know that there are other topics: for example, many Members have subscribed, along with us, to the issue of the seat of the institutions, an issue that we believe should be considered at least at IGC level.
Please respect us as Members of Parliament who want to take our work seriously, and that includes the Tobin tax!
In my capacity as a representative of the Commission, I will ensure that the charter and the actions stemming from it represent an affirmation of a Union based on a set of fundamental rights which are an integral part of Europe' s common heritage.
It is clear from some of the reports that have been presented to Parliament' s plenary sitting today that Europe' s 25 most prosperous regions enjoy a level of unemployment which is five times lower than in the 25 least prosperous regions.
There is an immense risk of exclusion.
This is extraordinarily positive, and there is cause to thank the rapporteur, Mr Koch, for the work he has put in on this issue.
As for the remaining vehicles, we could nevertheless provide for some means of sharing costs, as is proposed in Amendments Nos 44 and 45 by Mr Lange, the only ones that seem compatible with the balancing of the common position and with the trials underway in some countries, and we should therefore support them.
Their reports are extremely detailed and very important.
But today, Egypt, Jordan and Palestine have peace treaties with Israel.
These stipulate that state aid can only be awarded to the steel industry in particular, precisely-defined cases i.e. those involving aid for research and development, aid for environmental protection, social security to ease the closure of steelworks and aid to help non-competitive enterprises cease trading altogether.
That is usually the case.
This goes at least some way towards alleviating your concerns, Mrs Peijs.
Mrs Avilés-Perea, that was an exhortation rather than a question.
We are, at the same time, negotiating joint ventures allowing increased access for Europe' s large-scale fishing vessels in developing country waters at the expense of 190 million small-scale fish workers in those countries world-wide.
Imagine you have spent some months building up a portfolio of shares in companies in which you are confident: they have good management, good prospects and they are good investments.
The Social-Democratic Group has submitted a few important proposals for improvement over the past couple of days.
Given the environmental and demographic developments, if anything, we ought to encourage Member States to pursue a selective economic growth policy.
I have much sympathy with what the honourable Member has said about cultural heritage and about the Buddhist tradition.
Moreover, although I am not opposed to shipowners registering their vessels in their country of choice, I believe there is a need for stricter application of international regulations.
This contrasts most unfavourably with the United Kingdom courts where Spanish fishermen successfully brought an action against the United Kingdom Government in circumstances which were very comparable.
The McCarthy report on the URBAN Community Initiative gives us an opportunity to reflect on the appropriateness of Community intervention in urban matters.
You have made a bold start by rightly emphasising the need to focus on so-called "core tasks".
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, since I know the history of the Balkans, I should like to remind you that, for many decades, the peoples of Yugoslavia lived in peace.
Today, we have arrived at the end of a long road.
We asked for a whistle-blower' s regulation, and this is now in place.
Lastly, Mr President, the basic problems justifying this amendment of the directive have been pointed out. We have referred to the delay by the CEN, the amendment of certain provisions, the consistency between the text of the directive and the content of the annexes and the need to for it to be more specific.
It is Commissioner Bolkestein' s intention to present such a proposal to the Commission for adoption in the first half of this year.
That is why we are reacting against this carry-on in Austria.
We must give them this opportunity.
New rules have been drawn up and implemented governing the appointment of senior officials.
The Court of Auditors is to monitor the extent to which actions are incompatible with the regulations, but it should not examine the expediency of a particular action.
It is my intention that this scoreboard should become an instrument providing political and strategic guidance to all the institutions, and that it should also be an instrument for public scrutiny.
On the one hand, the political excommunication of Austria only demonstrates the worrying influence of conformist thought. On the other hand, if tomorrow the governments of European Union Member States must first receive not the confidence of the nation but the endorsement of supranational bodies, then the very principle of democracy will be destroyed.
Now, as he said, in excess of 85 000 tons of Salmon is now produced in Scottish fish farms in an industry which generates more than EUR 800 million annually.
I hope - and I thank Mr Monti for this - that the new rules will reflect as many aspects of economic policy as possible and that their social function will be guaranteed.
This is why I think it is important that this Parliament continues to press for quotas and that this is openly included in the resolution.
For over a year the old Commission could have done some work on this.
Finally, we should make it quite plain to Malta that if it wants to become a Member of this Community then by the time it accedes it must apply a standard in respect of registration and flag state control which completely fulfils our requirements, for the environment is a communal entity and not something that we can divide up!
I would be in favour of supporting self-contained cycles of projects and, even though LEADER I and LEADER II may have had shortcomings here and there, overall they were certainly positive.
These guidelines represent a step towards the improved effectiveness of Community structural aid.
Both draft directives seek to facilitate the freedom to provide services for EU enterprises.
The moment of truth is approaching.
The capital markets do not want uncertainty from us, they want clarity; which is why we reject point 9 and call for a split vote.
Thank you, Commissioner for your reply.
Have you stopped to ask whether or not we will also be responsible for the way in which the political situation unfolds from now if we set ourselves up to pass judgement on it here?
Our thinking and our future actions must focus on respecting these values, which truly respect gender differences, not on some postulated sexual equality, which has its own intrinsic contradictions. In any event there are no grounds for resorting to the easy option of a quantitative policy, based on the use of quotas, contrary to the idea of citizenship which the Members of Parliament in the UEN Group set great store by, and whose probable consequences would be the opposite of the effect apparently sought by Mrs McNally' s report, namely women' s participation in careers in science and research in proportion with their merit.
I, like all Members present, am saddened by this loss of jobs.
I just want to emphasise this further.
It is not a very time-consuming matter, but it is extremely important that it should get through Parliament now and that there should be no delays.
I shall simply stress my own personal complaint because, in the end, we did not manage to adopt a review clause.
Furthermore - and I agree with the assessment made by Mr Di Pietro - the Council' s text would appear to be overladen with contradictions, inconsistent propositions and omissions.
Madam President, Commissioner, the problem does not lie in the ideology of the debate but in its political nature.
I appreciate Mrs Cederschiöld' s work, and my point of departure will be her search - in connection with the Tampere Summit - for common definitions and common regulations regarding what is punishable and what common sanctions can be applied.
The European Parliament was the first to speak up.
We are, for example, still waiting for the proposal for a regulation on banning the import of bluefin tuna from Honduras and Belize. The recommendation for this dates from 1996.
Mr President, first of all, we want to denounce the fathomless hypocrisy of those who claim to be concerned about the environment and water, but whose criminal activities such as the attacks against Yugoslavia, aside from leaving thousands dead and wounded, have also brought about huge ecological disasters for water resources too, making them not only unusable but even extremely hazardous.
But when it comes to important decisions and priorities, there is a lack of women' s voices.
Over recent years the Community has spent some EUR 200 million in mine clearance, assistance to victims and related activities.
We can achieve the best of both worlds by having a clear text, a text that can be easily read by the citizens, and at the same time a text that can be used as a legal instrument.
I now come to the content of the report.
I also extend my special thanks to our rapporteur, Mrs Lienemann, for all her work and her cooperative attitude, even if we have agreed to differ on certain points.
We need to ensure that job creation initiatives are in place to promote employment opportunities in the small- and medium-sized enterprise sector in rural parts of Europe as well.
Those figures are incomparably higher for some countries.
It means ecological progress for Europe, and we can be proud of ourselves if we succeed in enacting it and setting it in motion.
The aid is primarily a windfall for incumbent regimes, and the poor majority does not benefit at all.
I finally come to three interventions about a subject I am supposed to know better than postal services, that is competition.
Mr President, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism considered, amongst other things, the report on LEADER+ and, as a result, agreed to support the process of decentralisation in the management of actions, believing that that process could be effective on two conditions: that local action groups represent the general interests of the local community, and that Commission control mechanisms are utilised to prevent local and regional political authorities from using LEADER+ resources to support civil groups and organisations which are related to those authorities.
The figure is now 5.35%.
All these factors have unfortunately been accumulating over time and are now allowing those who are cruel, intolerant, racist and destructive, of which all our countries have some examples, but thankfully a minority, to light the fuse of xenophobia.
Firstly, this is welcome because it explains, to our fellow citizens, what we are intending to do and what we are already doing. We must also express our regret at the current situation and try to improve on it for the future.
That would be another way of spurring the reform process on.
The next item is the joint debate on:
In this regard LEADER has established itself as an effective development initiative.
The common position puts European car manufacturers in a disadvantageous position in relation to manufacturers which have just come to the European market.
I think that this is also the case here, but I think it would be a bit over the top to spend too much time talking about these 100 amendments.
The amendment of the Treaties was, however, limited to a review of some internal rules, which was necessary and important, but did not answer the fundamental question: what is Europe, what are its common principles and therefore, its objectives and limitations?
This is a feeling which men will never have and it is an important difference.
We cannot understand how it is that experiences like the Urquiola or Amoco Cadiz have not served to reinforce legislation on maritime transport in terms of both controlling safety in the movement of dangerous goods and flags of convenience.
What we know from the environmental side is what I have already mentioned, that there is now an environmental reconstruction plan, but when it comes to medical check-ups I do not have the information about that.
The huge variety of situations and the varying development seen from region to region within the same State mean that there is a need for an in-depth assessment of this issue. This kind of assessment would enable us to allow and guarantee corrections to regional (and other) policies with a view also to guaranteeing internal cohesion within each Member State.
Some Members, like Mr Stenmarck, complain that there have been delays with the new proposal.
It is by reviving the principle of meritocracy that we shall improve in quantity and quality the presence of women in the decision-making process in quantity and quality.
Having said that, this does not mean that the Convention should be limited to a codifying role of simply compiling the existing rights from various sources.
Mr President, the Commission is now to obtain its discharge for 1997, but in reality it does not deserve it.
We have also been substantial contributors of development assistance under the TACIS programme to Armenia.
Mutual assistance in criminal matters between the Member States
That also means strengthening the democratic institutions.
Three comments: the first is based on the fact that women are able. I can, therefore all women can.
It is not surprising that the debate is long and difficult.
The collective redundancies and transfers of undertakings directive and the European works council directive constitute our legal framework, protecting the workers' rights and ensuring fair standards in the field of information and consultation at national and transnational level respectively.
The preservation of this Community initiative in particular, in the form of a new version - LEADER+ - is therefore greatly to be welcomed.
It is our intention to bring about an integrated social strategy which is, of course, underpinned by a sound macro-economic strategy and a sound employment strategy.
Mr President, Secretary-General, as you can tell, the Members of this House have listened with great interest to your information on the result of the Informal Meeting of Defence Ministers in Sintra and its significance in the European integration process in terms of security and defence.
. (SV) Mr President, no one wants more than I do to see a situation in which we are able to apply the precautionary principle in such a way that it is seen as radically protecting people' s health and the environment.
I would like to welcome the division of labour that you have made and that food management will remain the responsibility of the European institutions, including the Commission and Parliament.
According to our information, the decision on the selection of a bidder has not been taken yet.
From that point of view, neither local governments and much less non-governmental organisations, for example the farming cooperatives which would be interested in further development of the farming sector, have any involvement in the formulation of proposals for the third Community Support Framework, nor have they had any involvement in the previous CSFs.
Nor is there coherence vis-à-vis the European taxpayer when we draft a development policy which is accommodated in the Union' s budget but the EDF remains outside it.
However, I would like to say, Mr Newton Dunn, that the results of this kind of process for transparency are quite obvious to us and we consider them to be unquestionable.
This is a very important aspect, taking into account the fundability of public finances.
I would like to think that the EU is up to the task of providing the people of Mozambique with what they expect from us.
However, in spite of the reservations I am expressing on the paucity of the financial allocation, I personally support the compromise, by virtue of the programme' s content, to which the European Parliament made an active contribution as, following the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty, this sector become subject to codecision.
Dare we hope for a dual peace agreement between Israel and its neighbours to the north?
Consequently, neither the Council, the Commission nor the European Parliament has the right to interfere in the internal administration of a Member State.
The new applicant States are also encouraged to adapt to these regulations.
If Mr Katiforis' s report had been approved in its initial wording, none of the members of the Committee on Fisheries could have gone into any fishing region again without fear of being lynched.
Therefore, we can but call on the Commission to continue to show restraint and praise those who are working to safeguard the independence and sovereignty of the Austrian people, thereby ensuring that this people retains its freedoms and maintains good relations with other peoples.
It is in the interests of the European Union to keep all its options open for as long as possible, and in any case at least until after the EU-China human rights dialogue meeting is held on 25 February 2000.
In the past somebody said to me I have been defending the decisions the Commission makes.
Belgians can deliver their cars back to the vendor without any cost.
The European Commission' s report is a blunt demonstration of the fact that the Union institutions have no interest in anything except the major capitalist corporations who are engaged in this economic warfare and have no interest in the victims this causes.
Finally, I want to say that I welcome the efforts which Parliament has made to try to solve the questions on which the Council takes other views.
The White Paper on food safety outlines a comprehensive range of actions needed to complement and modernise existing EU food legislation.
Mr President-in-Office, do you not think that the very fact of increased child mortality is an abomination for the continent of Europe, a shameful thing, which should motivate us all, so that the aid we provide becomes more effective and more generous?
weighting of votes in the Council
Logically, in order to be given such a card, the employee must be legally resident in a Member States and must be covered by a social security scheme.
Important progress has been made, and the constructive tone of the discussions creates a good working climate for future discussions.
We have levers we can use with Russia if we choose to use them, but we are choosing not to use them.
These problems include questions of climate, health issues, biodiversity etc, and the problems are clearly exacerbated by globalisation, that is to say the new economy which is developing.
During a marathon negotiating session in December a compromise was reached which provided that, in respect of least-developed, landlocked and island states, assistance would be provided in the event of a minimum 2% loss of export earnings rather than the level of 10% for the other ACP states.
The reason she cannot do so is because, as some honourable Members have pointed out, she is in Hungary and Romania to see for herself the extent of the damage and how best we can help the Hungarian and Romanian authorities to tackle the crisis.
We indeed take huge encouragement from the very positive and constructive response offered in the consultation over the last month and I believe therefore that although there may be a slight delay in the compilation and application of reforms, these reforms will nevertheless be strengthened by the extent of understanding and commitment that will be produced by the consultation which we will undertake assiduously.
Until we have a firm position, we will achieve nothing with the Chinese authorities.
But I also believe that in future we will have to make the universal service sufficiently attractive.
What kind of requirements do you think our children and grandchildren and future legislators are going to make of cars?
Africa has the largest number of refugees in the world, the most overall poverty and a debilitating AIDS epidemic.
Today beef stocks stand at 300 000 tonnes.
So that is the world as it is today.
This is not a situation related to the economic climate, however; rather it is a structural problem, created by our remoteness, our insularity, in short, our own specific personality.
"Condemns Mr Haider for his insults towards certain EU Member States and their leaders in the last few days in statements, which Foreign Minister Schüssel has failed to condemn."
I also know the particular problems in your constituency in Scotland where disputes and discussions are occurring on these subjects.
In my country, Austria, new elections had to be held in 1995 in order to meet the Maastricht criteria and persuade our political partner to rethink his approach.
What we are looking for are minimum standards in asylum procedures so that refugees can be given help quickly, and those who are not fleeing know where they stand.
We provide partnership funding and there are cooperation agreements in place, in order to help Armenia, and still the aid cannot come into play because Turkey has imposed an economic blockade, and so many things cannot get through to the Armenians at all.
The rhetoric that we use, however, often smacks of smugness, verging on the sort of narcissism we associate with human rights attitudes in North America.
Madam President, Commissioner, a compromise resolution on the usefulness of a tax on international financial flows would constitute a first step towards the essential amendment of many international rules.
Is this possible?
The Austrian People' s Party must accept some historical responsibility for this.
Do please try to make the international organisations democratic.
The reality is that the compulsory slaughter policy has failed even to contain, let alone eradicate ISA, and while failing to deliver its objectives, the present rule has had a devastating economic effect on the industry with no compensation being paid and no possibility of commercial insurance.
Due to the elections to the European Parliament taking place around this time, however, Parliament was not able to undertake its examination of these guidelines until after the text had been definitively adopted, in July 1999.
But, of course, both the competition report and the aid report share common ground in this White Paper.
When I launched the White Paper last week I said that the shopping trolley is one of the most potent weapons on the face of the earth.
Some Members have even come out against this.
A5-0012/2000 by Mrs Berger, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on a proposal for a Council directive extending the freedom to provide cross-border services to third-country nationals established in the Community (COM(1999)3 - C4-0096/1999 - 1999/0013(CNS)).
Mr President, Commissioner, besides the fact that the postal services doubtless play an extremely important part in providing employment, they are very helpful in the effort to achieve the cohesion we all want so much and which is a basic reason for the European Union' s existence.
In 1995, a five-year derogation period was decided upon, which is now lapsing.
The responsibility for these cars lies with the manufacturer.
The newcomers are only interested in those parts of the work that generate high profits at low cost and low prices.
In other words, we must succeed in linking the competition criteria that are necessary to the economy with those relating to managerial economics.
The controls must also be carried out in such a way that the inspector does not just go on board and check whether there are any fire extinguishers missing, rather there must be materials testing, for this ship obviously broke up on account of material fatigue.
He is happy to hear what our demands are and is quite prepared to be flexible if he considers it necessary.
Mr President, I welcome Mr Barnier' s commitment to go to the regions, both to explain and to listen to what citizens have to say.
Quite clearly, we are now paying the price for our lack of concern.
Food safety
We look to it to challenge the UK Government, to ensure that the private sector, which surely must be providing the major impetus for Structural Funds expenditure, is involved in the planning stage.
We are pleased about this development, but what is more crucial than their presence is that they should guarantee that a short and medium-term action plan will be adopted and implemented immediately. This should be done in conjunction with the Mozambican government and this plan must be able to secure the aid that the situation requires.
It is proposed that a target should be achieved for concentrations in the aquatic environment which is close to the background values for naturally occurring substances and close to zero for humanly produced synthetic substances.
But it was above all the result of a stronger ACP group, which obviously found new courage following the events in Seattle.
For us in the north it will mean that the EU will be destroying the social infrastructure.
The report also contained recommendations concerning the creation of a European research area and the promotion in all countries of the Union of converging measures on research, lifelong learning and employability which would overcome any sort of unfair competition between the States in the field of taxation.
I hope and wish, and am indeed certain, that the European Union, with maturity and with the measures it has begun to adopt, will little by little construct, in the wider area, the necessary environment which it needs itself.
The Tenth United Nations Conference on Trade and Development is being held right now in Bangkok, and is suffering the consequences of that failure.
Indeed, the Commission feels that Parliament should instead support Amendment No 4 by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, which would allow the annexes to the regulation to be modified by the Commission, assisted by a regulatory committee, in accordance with the on-going procedure of Article 5 of Decision 1999/468/EC.
The Commission deemed the practical administration relating to the monitoring of the monopolies' ban to be unsatisfactory, something I would wholeheartedly agree with.
Mr President, allow me to ask the Commissioner one more question.
The EU should devise guidelines governing the quality of the job opportunities which are to be created, whatever that may mean.
The proposal to be discussed today, to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road, dates from May 1999, however, and could not therefore take account of the latest comitology procedure.
We should do exactly the same for the other countries in the Balkans.
The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
The Commission' s proposal does not formally deviate from the monopolies ban but the upshot of this proposal is a transition from a ban with permit reservation to a permit with ban reservation.
To that extent, it might be thought desirable, even if it is not a matter of urgent necessity.
In any event, this question is not presently included among the requests for topical and urgent debate on Thursday.
However, in this regard I share Mr Salafranca' s scepticism when he says that there has been bad news from Israel this week, namely that the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum cannot be implemented within the set timeframe.
To say that we will deploy 60 000 soldiers in a peacekeeping operation is not the same thing as organising an operation to achieve peace.
Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, LEADER I was an outright success due, in particular, to the great flexibility of the administrative management between the Commission and the local operators.
Our people expect more Europe, but not just any Europe.
The public still regard this as being a long way off but it is very real and should serve to make us question certain aspects of our current situation.
What direction do you intend to give to Article 13 of the EC Treaty?
The first thing we need to do in this area is to give these stateless people the legal means to live a decent life and be able to work without being relegated to the status of pariahs, the victims of unscrupulous employers and multiple forms of administrative and police harassment, the main form of which is having to live in permanent fear of expulsion.
In any event, for those Members who not aware of the President' s position, I will read the official communication and it will thereby appear in today' s Minutes:
(Applause from the PSE Group)
The first period was a period of institutional change, change in the legislative framework and huge constitutional victories in all the Member States as a result of the fight by the women' s movement, as a result of major decisions by progressive parties and as the result of action by enlightened men and women.
It is the antithesis of democracy and you know as well as I that the Chinese, the Chinese leadership, is Communist first and Chinese second.
Until then, there is really no point in Member States amending their national regulations.
Such provisions may well cause serious problems in cross-border areas and in candidate countries, thereby complicating enlargement.
That it has continued at all in the face of overwhelming pressure against it from many quarters, including the WTO, is a triumph of sorts.
That is why I would welcome an annual Member State report from each individual state which would have to record any charges against it and the action taken. Because what happens in each Member State happens to every single one of us.
They need to see the political dimension working, to see that officials accept their responsibilities and that there is communication with the citizens.
Yes, we need to continue to ensure that UCITS provide a balanced and protected product for consumers.
It is clear that, over the past couple of years, we have noticed an upward trend in agriculture and a downward one in structural expenditure.
This is not just a technical situation, it is a political situation, and it goes hand in hand with the need to solve the political situation, because there are aspects to this, and we may as well be open about this, which are associated with the international community' s inability up to now to make a multi-ethnic society function in Kosovo, with tragic effects on attempts to improve health care in that region.
Europe' s message, the European Union' s message to the world should not be one of arrogance or even European nationalism, no; it must be one of cooperation, partnership and peaceful development.
Is the call for violent demonstrations reconcilable with the Charter of Fundamental Rights?
Either the European Union becomes a genuine federal state with a genuine redistribution of resources, genuine free movement of workers and therefore - but only at that point - common labour and welfare regimes, or it would be better not to deceive and be deceived by hopeless paths to convergence which sound impressive but which, in reality, only cause harm, above all to the most vulnerable.
For the record, the budget for agriculture, which has a real impact on the environment, amounts, as we all know, to EUR 37 billion.
There are hundreds of thousands of refugees in Thailand and India from Burma and yet it seems that that country is no longer given any attention.
On the whole, I welcome the committee's proposals set out in Mrs Lienemann's report and think they could provide a good basis for a hard-won compromise.
On the contrary, since it is certain that not all countries would accept it, we would open the way to speculation and fraud and that really would create volatility, instability, insecurity, opacity and unfair competition in the field of financial services operating on an international level.
Mrs Ahern raised the issue of liability.
I hope that the Commission will use it in its reform work.
Having also studied the amendments submitted, I concluded that we can go along with these concerns to a large extent and that this will be reflected in our voting behaviour tomorrow.
Canada has invited the Sudanese for peace talks.
The question of arbitration procedures is still to be resolved, too.
But the question remains as to whether this accumulation of responsibilities exceeds even his level of competence.
Subject: Proposal for a regulation laying down the total admissible catches for specific fish populations for the year 2000, and the case of anchovies in particular The latest reports from the International Council for the Exploration of the Sea indicate that the current level of anchovy stocks in ICES zone VIII is critical.
This is on account of the process of enlargement to the east and that of greater integration with the Mediterranean countries.
The challenges are different.
As I said, it must not be perceived as a constraint nor must it be set as a precondition.
Whether or not the money will come onto the equity market in the form of direct investment or via UCITS is not relevant here.
Can the Commission say what its precise intentions are regarding the presentation of a new social action programme?
When six European countries have granted the right to vote, the President of this House can venture to extend this right to vote, and eligibility to participate in the municipal and European elections, to all people from outside the Community who have lived in Europe for more than five years.
It is crucially important to continue the success story of the euro and we must make every effort not to spoil this success story or put it at risk by taking inadequate measures to prevent counterfeiting - and we are well aware of the initial attempts that are being made.
Why are no-smoking areas not enforced?
What measures does the Council intend to adopt, and when, with a view to taking proper account of the critical state of anchovy stocks, the aforesaid quota transfer and the principle of relative stability?
Do we seriously want to respond to the hopes of our peoples?
The Commission is the executive and Parliament ought to have no desire whatsoever to take on this role, for the sake of its own independence; but Parliament is a supervisory body, and what better forum could there be in which to expound the reasoning behind one' s decisions than a democratically-elected Parliament, indeed an ongoing parliamentary discussion?
This will take place after the election in the north of the island scheduled for 18 April.
Is this right and proper?
These basic ideas meet with a wide consensus in Europe.
Four years to apply this ban on imports from countries known to favour flags of convenience is absolutely unacceptable.
Once again, there is cause for concern at the serious pollution affecting the fourth most important wetland in Europe.
Would you also propose that the Commission could give interim payments for instance, similar to the one that the British farmers are asking for at the moment?
But, on the other hand, the wider view must also be taken, namely that the initial decentralisation which has been begun today may, in the long term, lead to greater freedom to take the requirements of each country into account, and this will be of benefit to everyone.
Once again, there is active participation from groups from the private, public and voluntary sectors which suggest how best particular funding can be spent so as to help different local job creation projects within this region.
It has the advantage of clarity, and it can collect data and exchange experiences in order to agree on objectives and finely tune solid, comparative indicators and put forward recommendations.
So what do we need to happen immediately?
This, of course, is welcome, but it is essential it include a reference to the monitoring of recommendations that come from the European Parliament within our discharge procedure.
This has been interpreted as indicating that the Arab attitude towards Israel should be regarded by Europeans as being similar to the Nazis' anti-Semitism, which of course is completely incorrect.
I would wish URBAN to be orientated mainly towards providing answers to those causes of urban deprivation.
From the point of view of economic growth, and therefore of increasing employment and wealth, safeguarding a competition policy in the Member States is becoming a crucial factor, and one that is certainly very important for our future.
When the USA and NATO and, finally, also the EU, reacted, it was already late, in fact very late.
I have already written to you on a number of occasions concerning how points of order are raised in the House.
What do they see about the relationships between human beings?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, postal services, just like any European public service, contribute to the social cohesion of Community territory under the terms of Article 16 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Secondly, an immediate revision would make things much more complicated as regards progress in respect of the other pending dossiers in this field like European company statutes and the national information and consultation proposal.
It should be an extremely constructive contribution to the debate we are conducting.
This is not because of a lack of food, but because of what we have talked a lot about today, namely increasing poverty.
Secondly, speculative capital is extremely difficult to identify.
However, it is not under threat from Europe.
We understand your concerns and will certainly take account of them, particularly during the discussions that we will be having with Turkey to define that country' s own pre-accession strategy agenda.
Basically, we are opposed to programmes and structural funds of this type but, since the vote is only concerned with how - and not to what extent - these resources are to be used, we have simply adopted a position on the issue.
It is perhaps not by chance that the Conservative benches have emptied because that which is represented as market freedom no longer has anything in common with the noble principles of the social market economy which has brought so much prosperity to us here in western Europe over recent decades.
I should like to address one final point. We must not content ourselves with sealing another hole in the safety net and shutting our eyes to the fact that, where transport safety in Europe is concerned, there is still much more to be done.
The fact that the Syrian Foreign Minister and the Israeli Prime Minister were recently sitting around the same table in America for the first time in their respective histories is an indication that old hatreds and animosities can be overcome.
Mr President, as a member of the Verts/ALE Group, but also as a Member of this Parliament for Galicia, I propose to use this intervention to enlarge upon two issues. I shall, of course, be brief.
The amended text will then read, and again I must read it in English, which is the lingua franca of our Parliament: 'transferable securities issued by over the counter derivatives dealt with' , etc.
Emphasis must also be placed on the fact that a state aid policy - and the Jonckheer report makes this very clear - must continue to afford each state the freedom to define and organise the tasks of the public sector and ownership structures on an independent basis.
What happened in El Ejido is unfortunately not exclusive to this one town of the European Union.
The poor turnout at the European elections really should have been warning enough for everyone.
We are obliged to participate in drafting directives and also in assessing their results.
The Commission therefore welcomes paragraph 15 of Mr van Hulten's report.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
More controls would be placed to prevent oil spillages such as that of the Erika in the Bay of Biscay and also deliberate dumping of waste oils.
This also calls for the introduction of further new mechanisms in the Commission system which may very well include, as suggested by some of the political groups in Parliament, the setting up of a special intra-service working group and the establishment of a kind of coherence watch in the Commission.
. The European Union is currently in the process of adopting new EU water legislation to update and to establish a long-term strategy to ensure the supply of clean drinking water and the protection of existing water resources including rivers and coastal waters.
In parallel, it can benefit from substantial financial support via the PHARE programme.
Mr President, I would like to offer a few explanations.
For years certain countries, including Great Britain, have been blocking harmonisation and turning their financial centres into tax havens.
This apparently generous policy, officially intended to help problem regions, is a fool' s bargain for French taxpayers.
It is just as important to have headline goals for our policing and institution building as for a military capacity.
These fears have been taking shape over the last two years and the banana row is the clearest expression of them.
It is both technically and economically possible to reduce the emission of these substances to virtually zero and we need to opt for this once again.
The proposals in Mrs Theato' s report seek to encourage the Commission to present a substantive legislative measure on the protection, under criminal law, of our financial interests, which would criminalise certain activity, specifically fraud against the Community budget. These proposals represent a serious attempt to establish a new and ever more urgently-needed uniform criminal law for the whole Community.
This tax could help to check speculation without penalising the activities of the real economy. It could release new resources for investment in people and, at a time when the UNDP estimates the sum needed to eradicate poverty to be USD 40 billion per year, it could allow access for everyone to drinking water and satisfy health needs.
The Union has decided to assist with a further EUR 35 million in additional macrofinancial aid for the reconstruction of Kosovo, on the basis of an IMF report which estimates that a further EUR 115 million is needed for that reconstruction.
In my opinion, Mr President, this joint debate fully bears this out.
. (FR) We did not vote against this report insofar as it contains a number of correct general principles such as the need to combat racism in the workplace and reduce inequalities between the sexes on the job market.
The next item is the Commission statement - Company restructuring in Europe.
The debate is closed.
We are clearly, once again, returning to enlargement, which must be put into practice in tandem with the extension of the area of security, peace and freedom.
My final point is this.
If the European citizenship that we all want to see is to come into being, if the mandate that our President, Mrs Fontaine has staked on a closer relationship between the Union and Europe' s citizens is to be effective, our citizens must be able to feel that we are acting with some urgency.
Like the work on employment, the Commission' s proposal is founded upon four pillars.
We read in the conclusions in the document that the five-year term of office of the Prodi Commission will be a time of major changes.
We must not forget that it is human resources which make a company function at its base and guarantee it good results.
We were diverted to Basel-Mulhouse Airport.
Recognition should also be given to the pressures which the delicate marine aqua system faces from urbanisation of coastal areas.
The European Parliament will have the opportunity to take part in the preparatory group for the next Intergovernmental Conference.
With sorrow, I stress that in the context of restructuring the Commission' s services, tourism is dealt with by a section, not even a directorate, within the Directorate-General for 'Enterprise' .
However, if it is a union of culture, civilisation and participation, then it becomes a living thing.
The Balkan Task Force was hampered by the fact that little or no information was available on the actual use of these weapons during the conflict.
Schengen has been incorporated, as we said earlier, into the acquis, but it has been done with very little transparency.
One is nuclear safety in Eastern Europe.
I therefore advocate further harmonisation of criminal law in the EU Member States in the first instance.
I would also just like to go into those of the proposed amendments that go beyond the proposed amendments put forward by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
In other words, we are making the transition from the principle of banning to that of misuse.
In addition, it said that this would only happen if the right conditions were created.
In our view, it would be an illusion to think there was any point in FYROM applying for accession right now, but it would also be wrong to delay discussing it until some later date.
Anyone who would jeopardise production at this steelworks on principle, by demanding the return of the aid that was granted at the time, would not just place the steelworks itself in jeopardy but also one of the region' s employers that small and medium-sized enterprises are, of course, dependent on too.
This objective deserves our total support.
There are hundreds of thousands of people who earn their living at the Post Office.
I can only say very briefly, that we are actively working with them on a practical level: they are making preparations, they now all have competition laws and are setting up the relevant authorities.
Do we or do we not want standards compatible with OSPAR, in other words to get dangerous substances down to zero?
Madam President, today in the second reading we have voted on the amendments to the Directive on end-of-life vehicles.
We must not take anything for granted in terms of how we get the European economy restructured.
We are increasingly concerned in this House about public opinion. The fear of public opinion is a rather paternalistic concept but our House is what it is and we must do what we can with it.
We need to encourage them to participate in designing and delivering projects for these programmes.
Care must be taken to ensure that the Council complies with Parliament' s modus operandi.
What action do you intend to take to enhance the place of immigrants in our society and to guarantee proper protection for asylum-seekers?
So today we find ourselves in a state of utter confusion.
I believe this would fly in the face of the spirit and objective of the Treaty of Rome and all subsequent treaties.
Surely what we should be doing, and I hope you will agree, Commissioner, is engaging the person to do the job on the basis of their capability, and we should not enshrine such bigotry and prejudice, no matter how sincerely held.
Finally, on Cambodia and the Khmer Rouge: we strongly agree that senior Khmer Rouge leaders should be accountable for their crimes.
Unless these amendments are supported tomorrow a strong message will be sent out that metering and water rates should be implemented for households right across the European Union states.
These papers actively support the opposition politician, Mr Sam Rengie.
Everyone recognises, indeed this was the theme of today' s debate, that, if the European Union is to play a more active and leading role in development policies at world level, it will have no choice but to enhance the coherence of its own various development-related policies. I note that some speakers also emphasised that responsibility for coherence in EU policies is not a matter for the Council, for the Commission or for Parliament alone.
We will also need the fullest support from the Council and other key stakeholders.
Question No 36 by (H-0025/00):
The fundamental element for the development of each person - his freedom, which comes before economic gain - is thus enhanced.
In point 21, Parliament stresses that the guidelines in LEADER+ now need to be adopted quickly so that the programmes can start.
It is an obvious truth, and one that is measurable by other economic and social indicators, that thanks to tourism, many Mediterranean regions have undergone a radical change for the better in their economic and social system and the way of life of their inhabitants, and achieved a drastic reduction in the numbers emigrating.
As regards fishing proper, passive gear fishing is currently the hardest hit.
This unification is considered to be positive by the Commission' s report.
Enhanced regional cooperation can help prevent the outbreak of conflicts based on ethnic, economic, social or religious factors, i.e. have a preventive effect.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
Thank you very much, Mr Radwan.
We are all concerned about the environment and our children' s future.
Because our states, with the blessing of the Community, did not deem it useful to have its own commercial fleet and allowed meticulous shipbuilding know-how to disappear, we no longer have access to the clear traceability of vessels and we can see veritable coffin ships navigating our waters under flags of convenience, drifting according to the short-term interests of the multinationals.
Although action plans established by the high-level working group aim to limit migratory flows in the future, these plans do nothing to improve human rights, civil liberties and the economic situation in the countries concerned.
Parliament and the Commission can together increase their efforts to achieve an effective competition policy and so create new opportunities and new resources for our citizens.
The first relate to the timetable and the content of this initiative.
This debate concerns a vital question which increasing numbers of people are legitimately raising. What are the respective places of people and finance in today' s economy?
The change of system in European monopolies law that the European Commission is contemplating is high risk as far as competition policy is concerned.
The EU should apparently adopt what are called real convergence criteria, which would be binding and of real effect.
Firstly, there is the problem of investment in non-harmonised undertakings falling outside this directive.
Another point: the coordination between INTERREG, PHARE, TACIS and MEDA.
The policies of the European Union also have much to answer for in this situation.
We have reached an agreement with all the parties involved.
What guarantees are there of its reliability?
However, I remind this House that, back in June 1997, a Council resolution acknowledged the fact that there is a serious lack of coherence in some of the EU policies in relation to its development cooperation policy.
We have made progress in recent months and weeks, as Mr Gama mentioned earlier.
My last comment was intended not so much for the Commission as for the Members of the Group of the European People' s Party.
There are problems regarding the term "author" .
I have been fighting for a European environmental coastguard service for almost ten years, here in Parliament.
My question is really: how do you intend to organise transparency with regard to the IGC, because the present directive is not a good example of this.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report on additives in animal feedingstuffs concerns the technical and economic problem of restoring the competitive balance between different additives in feedingstuffs and between producers of these additives.
Minister Geremek is certainly not the only leader among the new NATO Members from central and eastern Europe who feels excluded from this crucial process today.
I will say again that we are going to conduct this dialogue initiative through specific cooperation or a more structured partnership with the Member States. I sincerely hope, with your support, that the governments of the Fifteen will participate in this dialogue initiative in the manner which they consider most appropriate.
I hope the number of Members in this Chamber is not an indication of the interest in overseas development work.
This being the case, Angola will unfortunately remain a very rough diamond.
Current programmes must be accelerated.
Thirdly, we have to bear in mind the synergies generated by other Community programmes, as well as the opportunities for sustainable development in the location or region in question.
This was, as you know, one of the changes made during the Agenda 2000 negotiations and it changes the way in which agricultural issues are dealt with at Community level.
Flags of convenience are one problem, but are not the only one.
What are the Commission's views on the substance of the Charter? What type of rights will the Charter set out (economic, social and cultural)?
Madam President, you have said several times that this is a very serious problem.
They are the result of human thoughtlessness.
Why am I stressing this point?
We cannot continue to close our eyes to these matters.
Secondly, the European Union stands to gain, in my view, by minimising the scope for interpretation of the position laid down by the Helsinki European Council.
But we all realise that it is not always possible to wait a month before implementing a measure.
The European Council in Helsinki itself approved enlargement involving 13 new Member States.
Our line is to work towards realistic objectives and practicable solutions.
It is fundamentally essential therefore that the authority is not anonymous.
Therefore, more than making amendments, we will have to implement measures to control what is already being done, apart from some supplementary requirements with regard to reviews, especially in relation to the age of the different vessels.
Everything is done to make the lines of responsibility, the identity of the owners and real decision-makers as impenetrable as possible.
I therefore wonder whether the Community should not have a more drastic change of tack and, based on very strict evaluations, change its course and change its objectives in such a way as to make it possible to combat the disparities in wealth and employment more effectively.
The main conclusions emphasised the need for a more coherent EU policy and a more strategic overall EU approach to development issues.
OLAF, the Commission agency set up earlier this year must be placed under the direction of an independent European public prosecutor whose job will be to prepare for prosecution by national criminal courts, criminal offences committed against the financial interests of the Union by Members and officials of the European institutions.
I have heard promises that we will secure democracy in Indonesia by giving more assistance to Indonesia
In Ireland some services are provided by companies from outside Ireland, for example, English companies certainly operate there.
Consumers in the European Union must know of the existence of the food authority.
KFOR and the UNMIC police consider one of their two main tasks to be preventing any form of maltreatment on the grounds of a person' s ethnic origin.
Other amendments are intended to simplify the administrative procedures, for example by authorising Member States to designate a single authority responsible for issuing cards.
Following the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Commission would therefore have preferred that a new text be adopted, one which would specifically enshrine the principle of unitary proceedings.
They may have at least exploited some ambiguity in the legal and contractual framework in force.
A single key is to suffice in future.
The Union must not make this mistake and I therefore regret the fact that your communication does not go into more detail on this.
Even America has now said that it is considering breaking off diplomatic relations.
It will be headed by a professionally qualified member of the audit profession and its independence must and will be guaranteed through a new provision to be added in the financial regulation.
I would therefore advise Commissioner Monti to deal with the issue of postal liberalisation, taking strict account of free competition, because I believe that this will probably become a very worrying issue in the future.
We are convinced that the opposite is true, and we do not think that state aid is by definition excessive.
I shall read it in English, which is the original language of the resolution.
As someone who both speaks and listens, we are glad to see you as a frequent guest both here in plenary and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
Yet he is taken hostage and treated as a prisoner of war.
I applaud your view that we need more synergy between our institutions, not just between Commission and Parliament, but also between these and the Council to underscore the extent of the political challenge.
I also wonder about the wisdom of the EU and its reaction to the formation of the government in Austria and how that is going to affect public opinion there.
Approval of the Minutes of the two previous sittings
They have a much wider responsibility.
We should recognise, however, that the democratic process sometimes produces uncomfortable results.
the Council statement on the position of the European Union on developments concerning Cyprus;
The Commission must of course provide full disclosure and transparency concerning the selection criteria used for the new urban initiatives but it must also disclose the consultancy networks which are being used to deliver the exchange of good practice.
As I did not have an answer, I wrote to the Minister for Economic and Financial Affairs on 14 December.
The development of this directive has been difficult and complex, involving diverse interests and divided opinions.
Mr President, I was a little disappointed with the answer given by the President-in-Office to my colleague.
(Applause)
During Mr Bolkestein' s hearing, my colleague Véronique Mathieu asked for an undertaking "that any new proposals, once these are known, should be the subject of impact studies to determine the implications of this liberalisation programme before these provisions are adopted."
Commissioner, I believe that it is time to opt for the safest technically possible measures.
These are four goals which have been worded in such broad terms that everyone must be able to support them. Having a group of high-ranking officials as the focal point for the pooling of experience and for the coordination and evaluation of the ways in which social and labour market policies are being developed is also something we can all benefit from.
Not a word was said by these same EU governments about coalition governments involving fellow-travelling communists in French or Italian governments, or in German state governments, or even the British government' s willingness to promote those with terrorist associations as ministers in Northern Ireland today.
Unemployment and pressure on employees worldwide is increasing.
The Member States should therefore be able to propose a reasonable number of areas within the financial ceiling of their allocations.
In the course of the debate, many speakers have pointed out how important it is to consult the general public and keep them informed.
A number of Member States are already able to show conclusively that improper practices in connection with the keeping of livestock are totally unnecessary.
In this way, at least a serious attempt is being made to give the opposition, which is preparing for a new round of demonstrations, a shot in the arm.
They have lost their status, and a significant slice of the world market and hundreds of thousands of workers have been made redundant.
It is most worrying, especially as a similar agreement with Mexico appears to be taking shape.
I would like to remark that it was a very positive experience taking part in those negotiations.
I just wanted to correct this.
I accept that Mr Andersson's report is very well-intentioned, and I respect him for the work he has done, but in my view the way the report defines and promotes social convergence would drive social costs higher throughout the EU.
Thus, a more appropriate way to encourage recycling is to tax manufacturers who do not increase the amounts of recoverable material in their vehicles, to encourage private sector recycling companies, through a package of tax incentives and assistance on complying with environmental requirements, and to incentivise the use of recycled materials.
This will make it possible to clarify the terms and thus prevent any misreading!
The matter of excise taxes, to which the honourable Member is referring, is the prerogative of the Member State concerned.
We agree that we should have better control of the finances.
That would erode the independence of the scientific advice.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
In the present political circumstances it is however unrealistic to imagine that the border between Armenia and Turkey, as well as the one between Armenia and Azerbaijan could be opened without settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict.
The crisis in the Commission was, in fact, a crucial point in the relationship between Europe and its citizens, and the low turnout at the European elections was a worrying indication of this.
Quite clearly it is undesirable to have situations develop whereby scientists working for, or advising, the food safety authority at Community level may be in disagreement with some scientific opinion at Member State level.
What should this global actor' s objective be?
That is not how you combat racism and a swing to the right.
If life is going to be lived on a much more global basis, as is already happening, and our children will therefore be living in the Europe which we are creating, why are we killing each other for being Basque or Spanish?'
This means that the neoliberal model now reigns in the field of water.
The debate is closed.
Briefly, these are the main points of the reform.
I want to concentrate on Kosovo.
The first is a tendency for the Commission to embark on very ambitious programmes, particularly in third countries, without sufficient assessment of the practicalities of implementation and proper resourcing.
That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you not to vote in favour of the amendments which have no appreciation of the spirit of LIFE.
The foregoing is the reason for our vote.
We have taken note of this.
Much as I agree with the requirement to hold a debate on the coherence of different Union policies and development policy, I question whether today is the time to be holding it.
Mr President, I would, in turn, like to congratulate both the Commission, for making another step in the convergence process with regard to social security, and the rapporteur for the sound report he has compiled.
I would like these words to be heard, because the European Parliament cannot be implicated in this way in a crazy declaration which I consider to be totally unacceptable.
An essential component of this joint effort should, in any case, be this Parliament' s right of assent to the forthcoming changes to the Treaty.
In general the way in which sittings have been managed in recent weeks seems to me to have been very chaotic.
Everyone knows that quality of life and full and better employment depend on sustainable economic growth.
Question No 39 by (H-0807/99):
The success of URBAN during the 1994-1999 programming period is indisputable.
This particular communication from the Commission forms part of the Commission' s overall strategy of improving the integration of environmental considerations into other Community policies.
If, I repeat, we had had regulations of this type, then this disaster would surely not have occurred.
For many years, I have tried, through the Council and the Commission, to find out why none of the institutions is actively participating in, and working for, conflict resolution in the Western Sahara, which is occupied by Morocco.
Then, sanctions must be harmonised between the 15 Member States; they should not be different, but the same throughout the Union.
If I had my way, I would wave a magic wand and equalise excise taxes across Europe.
Thank you for a very clear answer, the gist of which - if the interpretation is correct - is that the posting of workers directive entails an obligation on the part of the Danish state to establish a system of universally applicable agreements.
Mr President, Commissioners, when this House is called upon to debate human rights it is taking a chance, if you will, that is reinforced by the conditions that prevail when we are called upon to discuss such a crucial issue.
Of course, a prerequisite for that is cooperation between the Member States, and a network which will assist the exchange of experience.
This is inadequate, and I am personally delighted that Mr Barnier has stated an idea close to my heart and which, moreover, I expressed when I told the press in Bordeaux what I am hoping for, and that is the establishment of a reinforced policy of European civil security.
Madam President, according to various Members of your Parliament, more funding should still be made available for major projects.
In this respect I must say that, in terms of your commitment to a political union, to which we are favourable, this cannot be achieved unless it is based on our social model, on our originality and our capacity to better regulate the business of this world.
In some of our Member States, voluntary environmental agreements have already been signed to ensure that our ditches, canals and fields are not filled with these ugly and dangerous wrecks, inhabited occasionally by an alarmed farmyard chicken.
Secondly, that feeling has been confirmed by the real efforts which Mozambique has made in the last few years to build a strong and prosperous economy and a stable society.
Third point: specific measures in favour of some social groups - some speakers mentioned them - women, but also immigrants and refugees, must be envisaged.
I think this report is a small masterpiece of hypocrisy.
However, in the case of the United Kingdom, we believe they go further than that in a manner which is unacceptable.
Do you imagine that the 18 million unemployed people in Europe are victims of too reticent an application of this competition policy?
Parliament will have a key part to play in this debate.
Well in simple economic terms, Europe' s culture adds to genuine prosperity.
Nobody is asking for an IGC of the Maastricht style with a hundred or more subjects being debated.
I hope that the common sense of our fellow MEPs in the other groups will lead them to reject these amendments.
These feeder funds exist in the United States, which is an area with a single supervisory authority and a single legal system.
Various sectors of the population are employed by the tourism industry, particularly the more vulnerable groups, such as young people, women and the unskilled.
Mr President, I would firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Koch, on his magnificent work and his positive cooperation with the Commission with regard to improving the texts and presenting this report and this proposal; in the end there is only one amendment on the requirements for the aptitude examination for safety advisers in the transport of dangerous goods by road, rail or inland waterway.
I warmly welcome the fact that the Portuguese Presidency is making justice and home affairs one of its top priorities or jewels in the crown.
You may recall, even though this passed virtually unnoticed by the general public, that the Commission' s scientific experts discovered industrial residues of dioxin-loaded chemical lime in the pulp of citrus fruit imported from Brazil.
I have rejected the entire directive, not least because Amendment No 34 to Article 12 and the amendments to Article 5/4 have not received an adequate majority here in the House.
This is important for growth but also in order to avoid gulfs developing between people, both within the EU and between the EU and the applicant States.
We all know that there are a number of reasons for the development of a common foreign and security policy and I will tell you three of them - Bosnia, Albania, Kosovo.
The issue is as topical as it was before.
This derogation from the principle of the free movement of goods lapses on 30 June of this year.
I would appreciate it if, on the close of this item of business, I might be allowed to give an explanation of vote on behalf of my Group.
Owing to the imminent increase in membership, the bodies of the future European Union must become more effective.
Some of them also sail under the Maltese flag.
(The Minutes were approved)
We will continue to do that, Madam President, without fear or favour.
Mr President, we need to take an important decision today.
We must reduce CO2 emissions, employ renewable energies, and generally make enquiries, in this connection, as to how the forests of Europe are faring.
Resumption of the session
Our response to rural decline has come late in the day, but I suppose better late than never.
We need to be able to prosecute people who commit fraud against the European Union.
The examples of liberalisation and competition in air transport and in telephony services in Europe show that citizens have benefited from this.
The filtration camps are camps in which torture, rape and violations are perpetrated: we know that now.
That is a matter which affects my colleagues from Spain, Ireland and the United Kingdom.
Most of their content is either unnecessary or already referred to in my text.
In particular we felt it was necessary to simplify the administrative and financial procedures which proved to be too cumbersome and slow in the LEADER II initiative.
That is my first question.
I am delighted to be able to be able to set out the Commission's position on the report.
An important role for the committee will be to give advice on ethics and standards and to supervise common and separate codes of conduct for the institutions.
Amended again as such by the Schroedter report, they are a step in the right direction.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to appear before you again, here in the European Parliament.
The Minutes of this sitting will be submitted for approval by Parliament at the beginning of the next part-session.
Our experience of modern administration tells us that openness, decentralisation of responsibility and qualified evaluation are often as effective as detailed bureaucratic supervision.
However, the question of taxation or charges for the use of water is a matter which, under the rules of subsidiarity, should be left to the Member States for decision.
I believe we can learn something from this.
I believe that this issue is relevant to my question. Commissioner, you were not present at the extraordinarily named 'official opening' of the headquarters of the OHIM on 9 June, in the middle of an election campaign in Spain leading up to both the European elections and the local and regional elections.
Nevertheless, the storms that took place in the last week of December showed us what the consequences can be and that there are major problems in store for us.
Like everybody in this House, I want freedom, justice and security. I do not want to see these degenerate into over-centralisation, chaos and confusion.
The arguments of the US Government concern the fact that a future ban on the presence of dangerous substances in electrical and electronic waste would be contrary to the WTO rules.
One of the very first speakers, Mr Wuori, spoke of the remarks made earlier today by Mr Havel.
Athena, the goddess of wisdom and war, may have been a female model in Ancient Greece, but the influence exercised by women today can act as a catalyst to stop militarisation and promote peace.
It is not your job, it is our job to decide on that.
That should be our task, not political posturing.
Mr President, Commissioner, whenever a serious social problem occurs, it always has a political basis. This is true of the disgraceful events which have recently occurred in El Ejido.
Those are three reasons for a common foreign and security policy and we will be tested on how successful a common foreign and security policy we develop above all by how we handle things in the Balkans and do not lose sight of the fact that there are quite a few of our critics, quite a few American politicians, quite a few senators and congressmen who say 'How can we possibly take you seriously in developing a common foreign and security policy when you cannot even handle problems on your own back doorstep?' .
The aims of social policy can be best realised through stronger economic growth, not by making compromises with regard to decisions on competition policy.
This is important.
A sound alternative would be to clean the ship' s sides mechanically.
If we develop motive power of the kind I have described, I am quite certain that market forces and commercial interests in the car industry will ensure that mechanisms develop for dealing with both the cost and the workload.
This also applies to whistle-blowers.
The discrepancies between the Member States are too immense in terms of provisions, rightful claimants, revenue or benefits, etc. It is thus impossible to bring all States into line.
We all talk of scandalised citizens who have lost confidence in food safety.
As a new Member of the European Parliament, it has been very interesting and instructive for me to be given responsibility for this important matter.
Will Israel share Jerusalem and the water of the River Jordan?
A decision has already been taken on quotas of 40% for each sex on all teams and on all research and technological development programmes.
We have had this discussion before and she knows I make a distinction between various forms of codes which can have a very positive effect and eventually be turned into what I suppose we could call "hard law" .
The debate on the Stability Pact, the debate on the CARA programme and the financing arrangements in the short term are all pending.
I propose to confine my comments to two areas.
In addition, I should particularly like to emphasise the point which offers an approach towards creating an integrated and environmentally friendly development strategy.
We sometimes regulate things which could, by and large, remain subsidiary.
The lawyer-linguists should work very carefully to ensure that a reasonable version is produced.
Successful application of this agreement by the Member States requires unanimity within the Council.
It has been demonstrated in Germany that income from monetary assets has almost doubled from 7.6% of overall economic income since Tobin developed his idea.
Other priorities are the repayment of high public debt and restructuring pension schemes.
With this in mind I must emphasise the importance we attach to the cooperation we are already establishing with the French Presidency, with the aim of organising a Jumbo JHA-ECOFIN Council.
We should also like to see this arrangement extended to other areas in which, following the agreement, the European Parliament' s relevant committees will be sent material when they ask for it.
There is still much to be done, however.
In addition, and to achieve better assurances than those provided under the present system, the new system of decentralised controls must be complemented by setting up an internal audit service - "the second key" as Herr Bösch said, established in a way that is closely consistent with the recommendations of the Committee of Experts.
You have set a very good example of time-keeping today.
All European democrats in this House must join together to send a message to the Basque Country that it is time to put an end to the division and killing. It is time to share the Basque Country, Spain and Europe.
We are also developing another suggestion of that expert group, the Managing Change Report.
How would you describe this?
I believe - and I shall only pick up on a few ideas - that Parliament alone, and no one else, can exert an influence over its Members. If this were not the case, the European Parliament' s authority and representativeness would be seriously undermined in the coming years, and this institution would not move forward, as it should.
European democracy and Austrian democracy should not receive any lessons from anybody and certainly not from a Belgian Government that embraces corrupt parties financed by arms dealers and that appointed the leader of such a corrupt party, which was condemned by the court, to the post of European Commissioner.
Fourthly and finally, if the Member States asked for this, would you be prepared to chair the Political and Security Committee? In this way you could contribute all your experience as Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy, Secretary-General of the Western European Union and a former Secretary-General of NATO.
Finally, by happy chance, a letter from Mr Georgievski, President of Macedonia to Mr Fischler, dated 8 March, has come into my hands. In it, referring to Article O, now Article 49 of the Treaty, he asks if Macedonia can join the European Union.
If further regulation is needed, we feel that it could be better achieved by other means than those proposed in the directive.
Africa is, for us, a worrying topic for discussion. We therefore have another duty at international level, which has already been proposed by the Commissioner responsible for trade: the undertaking to relaunch the Millennium Round and to take on some fundamental problems affecting the poorest countries, not just in terms of writing off debts, but also via the unilateral opening-up to trade with the poorest countries in the world, with a great deal of willingness on our part, which we had already proposed prior to Seattle but which we could not put into practice.
I am aware of the Commission' s reluctance on this subject as it announced during the symposium on the presentation of INTERREG III last November.
What is left, for example, of the right of Austrians to choose their own destiny, if that choice is dictated on their behalf by those who decide what should or should not be done and if their duly and legally elected leaders are received in an insulting manner, as they were recently by you in Portugal, Mr President of the Council.
My Group assumes that Margot Wallström will promise to provide aid to those communities which have been affected: economic aid, support in terms of environmental expertise and help in connection with the massive cleaning-up operation which is required.
It will be a force comprised of various national units.
What will you do to ensure that Albanian Kosovars too can be cared for in a hospital, including that in Mitrovica?
(The sitting was closed at 7.40 p.m.)
We have a serious situation in which in the European Union today, there is a genuine link between unemployment and poverty, as demonstrated by the very worrying fact that unemployment has reached, on average, 23.7% in the regions worst affected, regions which also happen to be poor areas, whilst in the 25 regions with the lowest unemployment, corresponding to the richer areas, unemployment stands at just 4%.
Mr President, the directive on end-of-life vehicles is certainly a milestone in the improvement of the environment in Europe.
There should be no confusion in this debate. As environmentalists, we do not want an excuse for a motion.
When we deal with the positive side of the single market and create a common internal market, we must also deal with the darker side, namely bankruptcies.
One of you expressed a wish that these urban issues should not be confined to the URBAN initiative.
For the best way to reduce world poverty is to help developing countries help themselves.
As has been pointed out here on many occasions, is the postman not in fact the last point of contact in depopulated districts or divided communities, whether these are areas that are isolated geographically or the problem districts in our towns and cities?
Water is a basic necessity of life and a fundamental right.
What are the values of the French Socialist Party, which extorted money from all the town councils under its thumb in the Urba, Sages and Graco scandals?
The costs will not disappear. Nor will the waste disappear.
I cannot understand why the two small countries must be treated differently, nor why a clash was necessary between the institutional bodies.
We have Commission documents which speak of firm commitments.
The Danish authorities do not consider that they are obliged under Community law to pay this compensation to workers taking early retirement who do not meet the conditions required under Danish law.
The months of NATO bombardments of Kosovo and the mediation attempts in the Middle East are in stark contrast to international apathy with regard to the conflicts in Africa.
I also want to focus on the catastrophic effect the EU' s common agricultural policy has had on developing countries: dumping of beef in Sahel and South Africa, tomato purée in West Africa and milk powder in Jamaica.
There is the tragic monument of the Holocaust, the death of 6 million Jews, to those who argued the same case with respect to Germany in the 1930s.
I would like everything to happen much more quickly.
We cannot afford to wait.
We wish to see its competences extended, especially within Chapter IV of the Treaty of the European Community and with regard to Chapter VI of the Treaty on European Union and also a review of certain possible options, certain clear limitations of protection in these areas which are of extraordinary importance to our citizens.
SMEs, micro-enterprises and craft businesses in particular are still "weak operators" , given that it is precisely for them that the regulatory and administrative constraints imposed by some Member States, including Italy, are major obstacles to accessing Structural Funds.
Finally, a word on the general thinking behind the Corrie report.
In conclusion, I would say that while some measures are heading in the right direction, we shall of course remain vigilant in order to prevent the snowballing of Federalism which, if it were realised, would be to the detriment of Europe and the sovereignty of the states.
We are setting the Commission a massive task, not least in the drawing up of the scoreboard.
Finally, on the question of whether, as the product of quotas, we can be proud, I would reply categorically that I would be very proud to be the product of a quota because it would mean that I had managed to impose quotas on Greece, where the level of representation of women is 5%.
It is true that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia still has a long way to go, but, given the political and economic reforms already made in the context of the cooperation agreement, and with transitional periods accepted for certain domains, the country will be able to fulfil the conditions for a stabilisation and association agreement.
- (FR) The Commission' s White Paper on the modernisation of the rules implementing Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty (now 81 and 82) certainly does not propose any "renationalisation" of competition policy, as some Members of the European Parliament fear.
There are approximately thirteen million third-country subjects who reside within European territory.
What is needed from the European Commission, the Council and everyone else, is a quiet determination, a quiet determination to continue the accession negotiations on both Cyprus and Malta without guile, granted that in the last analysis they are the most mature of all the countries seeking accession, so that this determination can act as a signal to anyone whose view may differ from the view we all agree about.
It also has a long-term effect on thinking when it comes to the use of these sorts of weapons.
That is important and something that can be developed through the Lisbon Summit.
Finally, if the Commission and the relevant Councils of Ministers permit, I should like to stress that the Members of the European Parliament should be given more information on the procedures relating to the implementation of the INTERREG projects and, beyond that, of similar initiatives.
However, I would still like to ask when this code will finally come into force, bearing in mind that it has been on the agenda since 1997.
I would therefore like, equally firmly, to express our rejection of the use of violence to resolve differences, which are still no doubt profound, between the parties.
Europe must therefore lead by example to some extent, both because it must promote a certain development model and because it is itself facing serious problems of pollution and deterioration of its waters, including its groundwater, surface waters and seas.
. (PT) Mr President, by way of both a conclusion and a summary, I would like to highlight three key aspects of this debate.
The reason for this is that people are under the impression that once the steel aid code expires, they will be able to do their own thing again without the inconvenience of the European Commission' s supervision.
I have said, furthermore, that I would play my part by visiting each of the national parliaments.
We have no specific, concrete initiatives in this area but that does not mean that we are closed to the idea that an initiative proposed to us by NGOs in this area might be considered during our presidency.
First of all the report reveals Parliament' s single-minded determination to reduce state aid to ensure that the internal market functions flawlessly.
So, first of all, we need to keep the recycling percentages at their present level. This will, of course, provide the necessary incentive for technological innovation and for identifying ways of dealing with materials that we do not as yet know how to dispose of.
This relocation is, of course, unacceptable because human rights are being violated in economic, social and cultural terms.
Interpreting Article 7 of the Treaty, we can conclude that the application of protection for reproduction does not only mean protection for the reproduction of the interpretations or performances themselves as such that are embodied in recordings, but also protection against copying, whether in whole or in part and whether permanent or temporary, and protection against any other form of production.
I leave it to the assembled company in this Chamber to decide whether that can be the future of a European Union based on judicial cooperation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my great interest in listening carefully to the comments, occasional criticisms and suggestions that some of you have just made in your speeches with reference to Mrs Schroedter' s report.
In conclusion, while other countries in the Middle East have had reservations about the overall direction of the peace process, now that the Syrian Government has been brought into the peace process, Egypt and other countries in the region are willing to move forward.
I would point out that the European Union is composed of a large number of industrialised countries and, like Mr Désir and several other speakers, I feel that the European Union which we are forming can take the initiative in this respect.
The Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party has tabled 80 amendments in the committee, all concerning state aid.
If we can eliminate the obstacles to make it cheaper to create new enterprises, to facilitate the access to financing and to change the attitude of society to be more positive entrepreneurship, I am sure the tourism sector will be the first to benefit from this.
We have no problem, Mr Newton Dunn, in repeating this information to you in writing, but we will not be able to go any further than what has been said here, because that meets the requirements of the Treaty exactly.
Quality has a price, but pollution could well have a much higher price tag in future.
Is it the case that the motives behind the proposed measures are in actual fact concerned with reducing the competitiveness of the European car industry?
I therefore voted against paragraph 2 of the resolution, which presupposes that all parties have respect for human rights.
A flexible Europe, is a Europe which respects its national democracies, which relies on the support of its nations, its national patriotisms, instead of continually persecuting them.
Neither does the Commission accept the proposal that legal status in a Member State should be valid three months after the card has expired.
We must appeal to the whole of society and particularly to the democratic parties, whether they are national or nationalist, and no matter how pro- or anti-European they are.
According to the report issued by the Court of Auditors on the year 1998, this is not an imagined risk.
I think we should give this some thought.
A great deal of suffering could have been avoided if the EU, among others, has acted earlier and more decisively.
In this way, a decision-making system can be created that is more effective, clearer, more open and more democratic.
That goes far beyond your new economic and social agenda or a new, better quality of life.
All institutions must now join forces in order to work together towards building this type of Europe.
If not, why not?
And we should say so very clearly, it will involve more savings on services, more third systems, more reductions in average working hours, whatever methods we adopt to achieve these things.
Also I would like to say Commissioner that European citizens want to know exactly what ECHO is doing.
In short, what purpose can an armed force have in the absence of any policy?
We are in favour of reduction overall but we believe that the arbitrary number of 50 is not the key factor.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate my colleague Giorgos Katiforis on the report he presented to us. Not the report he presented to us here today, but the one he presented to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, because politically speaking, these are two completely different reports.
It is that bankruptcy is experienced within the European Union, in the majority of States, as an absolutely definitive event for the person it affects.
Ensure too, that training becomes a management tool.
Therefore, my question is whether you could examine the possibility that some of the policies on microcredits, which have brought results in cooperation, could be applied to those women in severely less-favoured regions, who have the odds stacked against them.
That is a clear complaint that we get.
Mr President, as well as discrediting the PNV, Eusko Alkartasuna and the democratic government of the Basque Country - who have the kind of attitude which, in the case of Ireland, deserved the Nobel prize - by calling them Nazis, the declaration insults representatives of the European citizens - as in my case: I represent a section of Galician society - by saying that we are more dangerous than the Nazis, and insults groups which are clearly democratic, with decades of history, in an unacceptable and crazy way, which I would like to condemn here and now.
There are, however, two considerations which must certainly be dealt with within this text.
Apparently, the postal service is a very strong lobby and rightly so.
In fact, renewable energies unquestionably provide a way of achieving these objectives.
They will often do fewer home deliveries, charge more for retaining post during the holidays, close down a large number of the post office branches and, ultimately, the tariffs for the individual will sharply increase, at which point the only parties which will stand to benefit from this type of practice will be companies which conclude collective agreements at a lower tariff.
Start representing your people and not just your car manufacturers!
As far as a European asylum law is concerned, a start was in fact made at Vienna and Tampere.
The Commission can, in principle, also approve Amendment No 4 which ought, however, to be introduced into another place in the text.
If we do not change it and we follow the Legal Affairs Committee, we shall be opening the floodgates to manipulation.
Clarification of this kind is missing from the report, which is unfortunate.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand the frustration of Mr Di Pietro who, in a short space of time, has had to carry out an extraordinary amount of work in order to be able to submit this report to us today.
Secondly, Madam President, we wish to send a very clear message to the Austrian people.
Although it seems a reasonable scheme, the Tobin tax is not without its problems, even if there should be agreement as to its implementation, which I do not believe there will.
We need a corpus iuris - as everyone has said - and common rules, especially procedural ones, which guarantee the rule of common law throughout the Community.
I therefore repeat the proposal that this oral question to the Commission and the Council should be retained so that we can find out, once and for all, the positions of these two bodies regarding the proposal which is relatively modest but which would give a clear message to public opinion, particularly after the tide of feeling generated by the failure of the Seattle Conference.
It is not enough that all the world' s industrialised countries should be included in the scheme, as then currency trading would move to tax havens outside that group of countries.
However, contrary to their claim to provide guidance, the Commission' s proposals in this respect are reminiscent to a far greater extent of a catalogue of possible measures within the scope of the various policy areas.
It is a fact: China is the major threat, the major threat to us, the threat which we must confront, the threat to peace.
Firstly, I would like to thank the environment colleagues in my group who approached this particular problem jointly with their transport team.
Brussels, which wanted to do away with nations on the pretext that they were unsuited to the task, now in turn finds itself unsuited to managing a resource which itself is an international asset.
This is the key ideological struggle for Europe facing us.
Even the strictest control cannot solve this problem.
We had reached this agreement on principle in the Conference of Presidents.
The so-called civilised world should hang its head in shame.
I support the enlargement of the European Union.
The Commission and Parliament are called upon to answer two questions: what are the right conditions and what is the role of the European Union on this?
But perhaps I could just say one or two things this afternoon.
I believe that the public will start to show more interest in politics if we can tackle the major issues alongside the day-to-day ones.
It does, however, support my view that I am not, apparently, the only one who cannot agree with the majority opinion.
I believe that this will be difficult but, in any event, we should carry out a review of the registers of the European Union countries.
Mr President, I voted in favour of the resolution on European postal services with all the more satisfaction since it reiterates once again the position I have always defended in this House, which is the need for a high quality universal service, particularly ensuring this service in the least populated regions and rural regions, and there are some even in my small country, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg.
It could act as a kind of asset redistribution in a world where there is both increasing wealth and increasing poverty.
Mr President, we should like to request that the last sentence of Amendment No 2 which reads: 'also calls on the Member States to promote tourism for the elderly' be incorporated into Paragraph 25, which deals specifically with social tourism, after: 'tourism for organised social groups...'.
Hence, it is extremely important that this condition of accrual be adopted.
You should know that the country which cooperates most with FYROM and has the best relations with it, in the entire area, is Greece, and this has contributed greatly to the stability of the area.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten has our understanding.
That is why, in accordance with Declaration No 31, annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Union institutions have undertaken a complex task of negotiation and consultation, resulting in the new Council decision, which revises the old system quite substantially, although we are not entirely satisfied with it.
I very much admire him for keeping his spirits up at a time when he was inundated with so many amendments.
We know that waste from cars exists and we know how we ought to be dealing with it, and there is no excuse for not taking action.
The studies have been the object of some criticism, especially on the part of the public postal services.
(FR) Here indeed is a sector which has highlighted the limitations and serious deficiencies of liberalisation.
The Commission particularly welcomes the suggestions made by Parliament for a more efficient procedure for the issue of service provision cards.
We must get to work and lead the way in these issues which are damaging our environment and destroying industries and occupations.
These were essentially of three types which I will describe.
The progress made will not be due to the Commission nor to the Council, nor even to the European Parliament, but to a combination of European institutions and to the Member States themselves, in as much as - as has already been pointed out here - specific tasks on the scoreboard will be entrusted to the Member States under the principle of subsidiarity.
I imagine anything less than 150 grammes would be extremely unwise in these circumstances.
The resolution passed went so far as to say that poverty amounted to a violation of human rights.
That concludes the debate.
We are not going to enter into a debate now.
Women are not participating in political parties and in the working and social world at a level of fifty per cent.
.
The most remote regions may benefit from support under strand B. The Commission draws up a list of priority areas and eligible measures which for strand A is not comprehensive, but is comprehensive for strand B. The Commission reserves the option to, at a later date, put forward topics it considers important to the exchange of experience and strengthened cooperation between regions, for strand C.
The URBAN Community Initiative is helping to achieve the European Union' s desire to communitise urban policy.
First, funding for preparation; second, implementation; third, mutual cooperation to ensure the exchange of experience, and fourth, technical assistance.
I want to be very candid: I have not seen much enthusiasm about that conference or the proposal to enlarge the powers of the EU.
At the IGC, we would also need a debate on the possible divisions of the Treaties into two - into a policy area and an area on the Constitution.
In the important debate on competition this morning, I expressed my views on Mr Langen' s report on the implementation in 1998 of the sixth Steel Aid Code.
I hope for prompt implementation of the measures to achieve integration. I also hope that the governments which produced such wonderful words in Tampere, including Spain, will work diligently to apply these.
This is occurring in my country, despite the government, the party in power being the only one which does not like the new law on aliens.
What could be fairer than for Members of Parliament to monitor the use of the appropriations they voted for?
I would like to remind the House that at second reading Parliament adopted this report containing eight amendments, including a re-instatement of the Commission' s original budget.
We need to be able to prepare that ground carefully.
It seems difficult to envisage such a situation evolving.
As regards the precautionary principle, I might add that the Commission is currently finalising a communication which I expect to be adopted very soon.
Why would I not say that we have noticed in previous years, on the part of the Greek Government, some shortcomings in the application of the new Regulation and the previous regulation in terms of involving representatives of civil society?
The manufacturers have tricked Mr Florenz and Mr Lange into tabling amendments here which seriously weaken these proposals.
What are the minimum conditions under which we would vote for this report?
(Applause from the left. Heckling from the right)
Mr President, Ministers, Commissioner, the 1999 harvest of decisions was indeed rich, so much so that it became difficult to gather, i.e. to put those decisions into practice.
It is clear that the window of opportunity mentioned by the presidency should be exploited to the full.
I have for many years, in word and deed, been committed to the anti-fascist struggle and the struggles for equal rights and against xenophobia. However, recent events - firstly, what were really threats by the Council of Ministers, then Mr Prodi' s threats against the Austrian Commissioner and, finally, the present decision - are things I cannot support.
Mr President, I have a question concerning an actual, concrete case in which it should be possible to apply the precautionary principle.
Lastly, I must recognise the important contributions made by civil society in this area, as well as the often underestimated role of the numerous non-governmental organisations who act on the ground.
My question refers to whether you too know of studies which state that a moderate intake of good quality alcohol such as Franconian wine or Bavarian beer is good for you and would therefore also be good for the Swedish budget.
I would like to counter this with the example of Portugal, where employment laws are not flexible, and where unemployment stands at less than 5% - and has been steadily decreasing over the last few years - because investment is increasing, with Community support of course, at a rate considerably higher than the Community average.
In explaining my vote, I must say that it is positive that there is a Community directive on water, but I believe that environmental dogma will not lead to the construction of Europe, but will lead to legislative caricature.
The delays in the Commission' s work will inevitably have a knock-on effect on the proposed timetable and the deadline of 2003 must certainly be called into question.
But Ethiopia is still calling for clarification on certain issues and the humanitarian situation in both countries is serious.
The Commission is already considering the implications for the European Union of the recent encouraging developments.
And, on this subject, Commissioner, you did not mention how the Commission intends to contribute to the restoration of the natural environment and the natural habitats.
Secondly, encouraging exchanges, mobility and training in the cultural sector.
We insist on this.
The European Union bears a large measure of responsibility - and along with it the two dominant political movements, the Social Democrats and the Christian Democrats - because, by their dogmatic adherence to the harsh financial policies of EMU, their dislocation of the welfare state and their deification of uncontrolled competition, they have pushed broad strata of society to the limits and made it possible for right-wing extremists of the Haider type to recruit support for their neo-Nazi ways.
Hitherto this has been out of the question of course.
Some of these actions might have been questionable, and some were regarded as unfortunate by NATO itself, but others were justified for tactical reasons, with the aim of preventing Mr Milosevic from continuing his propaganda campaign within the former Yugoslavia.
It also means that our Parliament President and the two representatives should be able to take part on an equal political footing and, therefore, not only within the working party, but also at the same political level as the Commission.
Its objective here is to secure the rights of victims of criminal networks organising illegal immigration, with particular reference to the rights of women and children.
There must also be a clear and real will to allow more women, who are ready and able, to assume responsibilities and commitments in political life and therefore in the decision-making process.
Mr President, today the European Parliament must face up to real responsibilities.
The situation in the north is different from that in the south, and different from the situation in those countries which have the problem of desert areas.
Helsinki was an historic event, an historic turning-point and an historic new reference point.
First OSPAR.
A number of other hydro-electric schemes planned over the last 30 years in Turkey have raised matters of concern, such as the effect on displaced farmers.
It must also cooperate with the Member States in order to improve the quality of data in good time, which is to say in time for the ninth report.
We need this at European level and internationally; we need something like a TÜV, an organisation that undertakes technical testing of motor vehicles in Germany, which is compulsory every two years.
We agree that there should be an evolutionary clause on the prospect of EU membership contained in the stabilisation and association agreement.
None of us wants South American type favelas in Europe.
One of the issues that we may have to address over time is the question of the speed of response in such circumstance.
I know I can rely on everyone here.
We must take practical steps today to put an end to all attacks of a physical nature.
Finally, the report specifically highlights actions in favour of ethnic or sociological minorities.
Occasionally for some people the postman is the only person they see all day.
Fourthly, we express our repulsion at the fact that this dual assassination was intended to directly destroy the political process aimed at achieving peace in the Basque Country.
As regards the first of these, it seems to provide an effective solution for the long-standing demands by the creators of artistic and literary works, while at the same time creating a framework of protection in relation to issues such as distribution, rental and the presentation of their works to the public.
We are in the midst of rather sensitive negotiations.
And the fact that coins are to have a national design on one side will make them even harder to identify.
Finally, as our Nobel Prize Winner, José Saramago, has said, we are all in each other and as Jesus Christ said, although Saramago disagreed with this, we should not just love one another, more importantly, we should respect one another.
Rigidity by imposing social convergence criteria and other Community guidelines certainly does not create the necessary jobs.
Mr Bösch, I take note of your observation but, clearly, we hold this type of Conference of Presidents, open to all MEPs at the original request of the MEPs, so that they may participate in some of them.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
That is why we should bear in mind what was said by the French writer Vivienne Forestier, who described the state of the world in terms of the economy' s reign of terror.
Furthermore, the Portuguese Presidency of the European Union has decided, following the example of previous presidencies, to appoint a representative to establish contacts with the various parties involved in this issue.
. Thank you very much, Dagmar Roth-Behrendt, for these questions.
In my own country, Sweden, a number of political parties have, in recent years, voluntarily introduced quota allocation by gender as a feature governing the ways in which political assemblies are constituted and run.
This is why we have always said that enlargement was possible only if the diversity and freedom of the peoples of Europe was clearly recognised, i.e. by adopting flexibility founded upon the respect of national sovereignty.
In the course of the discharge procedure for the coming years - that for 1998 is already under way - Parliament will have to examine, as a matter of urgency, whether or not it was too quick to bestow premature praise on the Commission for 1997.
(Interruption from the extreme right by Mr Martinez) We have a major problem, because we are providing travel warrants for the people, but we are incapable of acting when there is an enormous humanitarian crisis, as in Chechnya.
- (SV) Obviously, the political leaders of Europe have a right and a duty to react against Mr Haider and his party.
One reason for the acceptance of this proposal, and of the campaigns by NGOs such as ATTAC, SOLIDAR or others which have popularised this proposal, is that it would release resources which could be allocated to development programmes in the poorest countries, in areas such as education or health.
As already remarked in this session, UCITS are key players within the modern capital markets.
I have every confidence that if we and the politicians of Europe support him we will see the kind of reform we need.
Unfortunately, the excellent Schroedter report did not take account of this criterion, despite the fact that there is considerable evidence to show - as we shall see later in the Berend report - how, in fact, these funds are providing splendid assistance to the most backward regions in order to bridge the gulf that separates them from Europe' s most highly-developed regions.
As Mrs Ahern has explained very well, the budgets of both the SAVE programme and the ALTENER programme, are basically symbolic budgets, since the burden is shouldered by the countries, the States of the Union, the regions or even, in some cases, the local authorities.
The practical consequence for these regions in the immediate future is that support for border areas will again be downgraded.
Given the extreme volatility of this region and given the very real concerns of many commentators that we will see an increased incidence of conflict, of so-called "water wars", in the coming decades, what is the Commission's view about the potential destabilisation, both in Turkey and in the wider region, that will be caused by this dam?
The INTERREG I programme between 1989 and 1993 and the INTERREG II programme between 1994 and 1999 have proved an absolute success in terms of bridging closer social and economic development between bordering Member States.
This Charter is really misnamed because it will actually reduce these rights.
If they cannot be obliged to provide what the state monopoly was able to guarantee, particularly thanks to its obligation to provide a universal service, then the public service must be protected.
I wish to add a voice of concern on the topic of subsidiarity, not just between Union and Member States but between Member States and their own internally self-governing regions.
However, in the future, the Union will also have to increase its own input in promoting the use of renewable energy and ensuring that renewable energy is launched without obstacles on the market.
The truth is that the scant participation of women in centres of political representation and decision making demonstrates a democratic deficit which is incompatible with genuine democracy.
Then you become worried that the whole stock market is going to collapse, as it did in 1987.
Regardless of who is to blame - and we are not here to apportion blame, the relevant United Nations resolutions in this area are clear enough - I believe that we should take advantage of the opportunities that the new situation is opening up, in more of a rational way and less of an emotional one.
My question would have been almost exactly the one raised by Mr Purvis, but I would like to press the point further.
There may well be contradictions between the two objectives and there is nothing to show that the Commission has pointed out those contradictions and how it proposes to deal with them.
I should like to thank Commissioner Kinnock for all his efforts so far.
However, I would remind him that, during his inaugural debate, he described the Commission as a European government.
The last meeting on the subject was held in November 1999 and we are waiting for the Commission services' final proposals on whether or not infringement proceedings will be instituted against Denmark.
There is a continuing threat to other wildlife from eating toxic fish.
We want the Commission and the Council to know that we will not give up trying to provide LIFE with the budget it deserves and which best guarantees the environmental results that we are seeking to achieve with this kind of instrument.
The situation of AIDS in Africa now is so serious that more people are dying of AIDS than are dying in conflict.
We share these views because we are in favour of world trade, but we want this trade to be conducted according to common standards, common rules which would regulate world trade with one aim in mind. This aim is that trade should benefit development, and particularly harmonious development in which the values of citizenship do not only apply to the world' s most dynamic and competitive regions.
The use of depleted uranium weapons was one of the many issues considered and this report is now widely available also on the Net.
All information received during the past six months, either from individuals or from groups requesting an investigation of NATO' s actions during the Kosovo conflict, have been recorded by the Prosecutor.
Thank you very much indeed, Mr Solana. I shall now give the floor to Mr Poettering, on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
We have established the single currency - which is extremely positive - and we are facing enlargement.
If you charge this from day one, you can process the old cars straight away.
Now it is, of course, possible to take the view that criminal law and criminal proceedings law are intrinsically matters pertaining to the law of the Member States and it is quite unthinkable that they should be governed by the principle of subsidiarity.
Three amendments can be partially approved, and one can be approved in principle.
Specific directives will then be adopted within this framework.
Adjournment of the session
I would hope that the contribution of ALTENER would lead to more initiatives.
The Commission would like to stress in particular that, in the drafting of the code, it has taken on board all the draft recommendations of the European Ombudsman.
Even in the tourism industry.
What we really need to focus on, however, is making the checks more effective.
Mr President, the task of the post office is to ensure that, every day, the post is delivered everywhere, be it in the city or in remote, rural areas, at the same tariff.
It will furthermore be a factor in renewing the very fabric of business, which must not be hindered by the existence of slow bureaucratic procedures or by obstacles that prolong the agony of businesses that are no longer viable.
Let us not forget either that greater consideration should be given to the islands and remote regions of the European Union because their geographical location is a hindrance to their economic and social development, unless of course the Commission is intending to build bridges or underwater tunnels linking them to the European mainland.
Cross-border cooperation continues almost exclusively to be an issue concerning landlocked areas and, where exceptions have been made for maritime areas, their selection is not transparent and they often suffer from compensation from other Community policies.
Nor do I think that the people who were their victims can give them a fair trial.
Directive 96/35/EC was a response to this requirement.
It is not only the targeted, specific tourism actions which are important but the other horizontal actions in the field of transport.
It is not to oppose liberalisation to ask that it be done in a way that takes account of these factors and allows the continuation of a universal and affordable postal service.
There is no clear agreement within the PPE-DE Group in support of the compulsory quota system.
Mr Prodi, what can I say; what is there that is new?
Two minutes is certainly not long enough to deal with such an important topic.
Today, as previously in the history of Europe, right-wing extremism is the result of insecure social and economic conditions of life.
I would also like to stress, as many Members have highlighted, that human rights policy is at the heart of Europe' s identity and that respect for human rights should be seen as a fundamental principle for international cooperation by the European Union.
Commissioner, I would like to thank you for the ideas you have put forward, particularly on the very specific proposals concerning the people affected and who are expecting a lot from the European Union, in terms of the help that we can offer them.
You know the French proverb, 'Nothing for nothing' .
I would wish the Commissioner all the best in his battle within the Commission and wish Mr Amado the same within the Council.
But how do we make use of the sense of crisis to which this ecological disaster has led?
I am convinced that it will be hard work, when all is said and done.
It is in that quasi-provocative spirit that we have presented an amendment suggesting the transfer of responsibility for south-east Europe from Foreign Affairs to Enlargement.
I am not saying that we do not need to raise the skills within the sector - of course we do - but let us get the jobs established first.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to welcome the presentation of, and the first ever debate on, the Commission' s programme for government - the word President Prodi is so fond of; as I am -for the whole legislature.
Portugal is a country which has clearly demonstrated its sensitivity to issues relating to the sea.
On a final note, I would like to thank all those in the Committee who supported me in compiling these reports, which were far from easy to produce.
The meetings of the working group are open and the first meeting was held on 11 January 2000.
However, the Commission will have the possibility of seeing that the opinions of the Authority on scientific matters are enforced by way of passing legislation which is the function of the Commission, Parliament and Council.
We now require an in-depth analysis of why regional policy is not producing the desired result in all areas.
Addressing the fundamental question of relations with the United States, the Commission mentions just one priority: 'we will endeavour to reduce and eliminate as far as possible the disputes in transatlantic trade' (page 4).
It will give more and better choice to tourists and generate new and better tourist products.
I wish I could give guarantees for many things but unfortunately I am not able to.
Remember the IGC that led to the Single European Act.
Berend Report (A5-0107/1999)
(Applause)
It is quite clear that many people within Wales are looking to the European Structural Funds programme to alleviate some of the great difficulties that we undoubtedly face.
Non-compliant vessels must be denied access to European waters, the responsibility of polluters, shipowners or charterers must be determined in line with the principle of the "polluter pays" , maritime supervision must be strengthened to prevent any degassing, thorough and reliable inspection of tankers must be required, an appropriate "natural disasters" budget line must be re-established for Member States and, in the meantime, Community aid released on an exceptional basis and the French departments affected by the disaster should be made eligible for Structural Funds.
Even a small tax would have serious repercussions on the capital markets, because this sort of speculation tax would reduce the profitability of investments considerably.
The region should recognise that Macedonia exists and that it will continue to exist.
I assume that the Commission will then be able to adopt the definitive version of the guidelines in March or April.
On a personal note, please allow me at this time to congratulate the pirates who, by acting the way they are, are forcing the world to reflect on the only system which is currently unregulated.
All the European States are known throughout the world for being tourist magnets envied by all, including the United States of America, which we spoke about this afternoon with regard to the native Americans.
I will have to repeat these arguments, modestly, in this intervention, because the same issue has arisen once again.
This is not the case here.
I have heard the honourable Member talk in the past about the Caucasus as well.
.
Diplomatic pressure is only successful when it is backed up by credible economic and military threats.
The Commission envisages going much further than is currently proposed by Parliament in its amendments.
A clear declaration on feedingstuffs will allow double freedom of choice, both for the party using the feedingstuff and the subsequent consumer.
With regard to one of the most controversial points of our debate, the application of tariffs, the Spanish Socialists have been arguing, in accordance with the principle that the polluter should pay, that the directive should propose policies on accessible prices for all levels of consumption.
I would also like to say a few words about ex post financial control.
The Agenda 2000 issues are, of course, ones that relate to your third and fourth strategic objectives, the economic and social Agenda and a better quality of life.
Instead, we prefer an addition to those measures which are required in accordance with Article 11 to promote activities in this area.
Now we have to concentrate on solving problems in small and middle-size towns and cities, as they do not have enough resources.
I can confirm, and thank you for having asked me about this, that we will use all the most modern means, television in particular, to broadcast our public debates in each country and even across Europe.
This is notably the only party in Cambodia which has no military arm.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
Our second criticism is that the system was very restrictive of the Commission.
Upon referral to committee, we examined over a hundred amendments and, so far, 17 amendments, some of which have already been presented in committee, have once again been tabled.
I thank the Commission for doing that even if, of course, I do not agree with everything the Commission said.
(PT) The Commission' s main instruments for overcoming regional disparities are the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund. It is therefore crucial that the European Parliament drafts its broad indicative guidelines without threatening the principle of subsidiarity, given that establishing the development strategy for each country falls to the respective Member States.
I know full well that we will not be able to achieve any political objective if the Commission does not undertake vigorous and comprehensive internal reform, if it does not become more efficient, if it does not increase efficiency in all sectors, starting with the sector in which the worst backlogs have built up in the past - external aid.
The labour market and social protection are, in fact, two sides of the same coin, that require harmonised policies and rules.
The carefree appeal made by the rapporteur for higher economic growth seems an attractive way of fighting high unemployment, but it is, in fact, a short-term policy.
Firstly, and this is perhaps the basic point of the proposal, the idea, which goes hand in hand with recycling and the use of waste, that we should use materials which will subsequently cause less pollution.
Opinion of an MEP from the south of Europe: "Nevertheless, this is a question of competitivity and equality of conditions".
For that reason, as Mr Karas also said, we should give more attention to the policies that lead to a certain currency being overvalued in relation to its actual potential value.
I totally agree with Mr von Boetticher and Mr Schulz' s remarks, and truly believe that the European Parliament and the Court of Justice need to be more involved in the area of freedom, security and justice, without having to derogate from their own powers.
In fact, we all know that anyone who does not live within the perimeter of an Objective 2 region will find it all but impossible to obtain aid.
The EU' s potential for growth must pay particular attention to certain factors, on most of which I believe we agree with Parliament' s analysis.
We want to prevent the prices of feedingstuffs from rising and Mr Doyle' s proposed Amendments Nos 4 and 5 therefore deserve our support.
I therefore welcome Amendments Nos 6, 10, 14, 24, 58, 60 and 88 .
One is subsidiarity.
This directive encourages the whole of this sector.
Then, and only then, might you consider if human rights are affected.
I shall take the floor very briefly, Madam President.
That, in my judgement, is the challenge for the next few weeks.
Behind this lies another ambition on the part of the Commission and of the Council and of the overwhelming majority of this House, namely to introduce such an area.
We have all seen some of the consequences on our television screens.
In 1988, the Commission introduced an action plan to promote equal opportunities for women and men.
By lowering the price/weight threshold reserved for public postal services and by liberalising mailshots or cross-border post, the second directive may offer the most profitable sectors to the competitive sector.
It is all very well to talk about conservation and I agree with it totally.
Nevertheless, I would like to say that the various preventive actions taken on a strictly bilateral basis by these Member States was actually a set of actions of what I would call preventive political action at diplomatic level. We feel that they were perfectly justified and seemed to be reasonable in the face of the actions and personalities of a party which, although it has become part of a European Union government, does not strike us as being able to guarantee that it can meet the Union' s aims.
In spite of that and the arrests made by the Spanish and French police, including arrests of ETA negotiators with the Spanish government' s agreement, ETA honoured its unilateral ceasefire.
There is one thing I would like to make quite clear though. Parliament is a legislative body, but the fact that we have no more than the right of consultation in matters of competition law, of all things, is truly scandalous.
Like the rapporteur, I deplore the fact that the figures given in the report do not cover all state aid.
I believe that the opening of these negotiations on the stability and association process is the logical conclusion of a salutary and positive trend in that country.
The structural and economic differences of the various countries cannot, therefore, be rebalanced through budget deficits and trade.
It is essential to be aware of the widely varying situations in different Member States, such as specific climatic conditions, water regimes and fluctuations in them over the year, the social, economic and ecological effects of applying standards, and also of the failure to do so.
Furthermore, it should be the case that, if the Court of Auditors detects a mistake not just one year but two years running, the management should be held responsible for it, and this will have an effect on chances of promotion.
What is left of the stripped vehicle also requires to be processed adequately.
With regard to Amendment No 3, which we did not approve at first reading, I want to emphasise that each programme has its own objectives, conditions under which it may be applied for and costs which make it eligible for aid.
We therefore must not leave it out of innovative and pilot Community programmes which will allow the new geographical and economic map of Europe to be defined.
That is why I urge you to vote against Amendments Nos 38 and 45.
Of the living creatures, they can see many animals that are treated cruelly, rare ones becoming extinct for ever.
We all agree that we should ask that, halfway through these programmes, when the assessment of the directives is made, Parliament should be given an equally influential role on the grounds that we are the citizens' representatives.
But there are some questions still outstanding.
Can I begin by stating for the record and for the enlightenment of Mrs Langenhagen that the decision for me not to address the full plenary tomorrow and therefore be available for formal responses on the report is not mine and not the Commission's - it was the decision of this Parliament!
Subject: Structural Fund financing of research in the civil nuclear technology field Can the Commission confirm that in the last Structural Fund programming period, 1994-1999, no assistance was granted to research in the nuclear fusion or fission areas?
It appears that the meritocracy in a number of our European countries is still so biased in favour of males that women simply do not stand a chance.
Does the Commission consider that what has happened is compatible with the five-point programme agreed between Parliament and the Commission in September, and is it prepared to submit a detailed proposal for legislation on proper administration in a form which allows Parliament to express an opinion on it?
They merely touch on the - nevertheless important - issue of the possibility of assessing the progress made in relation to verifiable objectives which are completely consonant with the strategies followed in Community policies, and they do not pay enough attention to the implications of enlargement, so much so that they do not contain specific provisions or clarifications as regards either regional and national authorities, or candidate countries.
Some want tighter legislation, some want more clarification, others want to serve national interests.
Mr President, co-operation in the field of law is without doubt essential in free market Europe, but it must hinge on the strictest respect for those principles which lie at the very heart of our civilisation: the fundamental human rights and freedoms, laid down in the European Convention on the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Its aim is to improve the quality of water and the reliability of the water supply and sewage systems.
I hope that we can thrash this out.
Hence our amendment in order to prevent contradictions between general policy and actual projects.
This is not new.
Secondly, we send our deepest condolences to their families, their socialist colleagues, the Basque parliament and the Basque police force. We also want to express our solidarity and heartfelt sympathy.
We find ourselves dealing with some very serious events, which in the past seemed to be the norm.
I should therefore like to discuss something more general and begin with a couple of, in my view, useful figures.
I also believe that we should not underestimate, and this is a question that I put to you, the stranglehold and the force of the lobbies of the foreign ministries.
So is a joint debate on them since each can only be fully understood in the light of the other.
Over the coming years, faced with the challenges of globalisation and eastward enlargement, Europe will, more than ever before, require appropriate detailed guidance on how to plan and revitalise its economy.
Mr MacCormick, I agree that this dialogue must reach beyond the national capitals.
We expect the Commission to implement it.
We believe it is imperative not just to make every available effort to provide the citizens with comprehensive information on how the Intergovernmental Conference is going, and its outcome, rather they must be directly involved in the overall reform process to a far greater extent.
Mr President, the waste from end-of-life vehicles is one of our really major environmental problems in terms both of the quantity of waste and of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances.
How is it possible not to be outraged when a bank refuses to divulge the names of the Erika' s owners on the grounds of professional confidentiality, without governments reacting?
I wonder, since Mr Da Costa has been listening to these remarks from the back of the Chamber, whether Mr Kinnock could confirm that the Commission supports the view explicitly stated by Mr Da Costa today and in the recent statement by the Presidency on behalf of the heads of government.
As this is the case, whatever solution is found, I think that it will have to respect both democratic law and be acceptable to all Member States, regardless of their national positions on the matter.
As regards our external partners, all we can do is set them a good example and encourage their efforts to democratise their decision-making processes.
My question to the President-in-Office is twofold.
What is the reason for the Commission?s acting in this way, and how can it explain the resultant discrepancy between its words and its actions on the reform of EU administration?
Our understanding springs from the knowledge that our history of the recent past has bequeathed to us a political responsibility of special importance in the present.
Ultimately, it is a question of different spheres of authority, where the European Parliament and its Members do not have any legal means of changing the current corporate decision or do not even have a particularly deep knowledge of the situation in the factory as it stands.
I believe Parliament should support these forces of democracy.
The legislative programme from the Commission ought at least, therefore, to be accompanied by as long a list of tasks which are to be referred back to the Member States and to the processes of popular democracy. Otherwise, the number of laws produced in Brussels will just keep on growing.
I can only quote what is contained in the general Structural Funds Regulation which specifies that the Commission will work with the governments of the Member States. It is therefore the Greek Government which is my primary partner.
From here on things are going to be easier.
On behalf of the House, I would like to welcome you to the European Parliament.
Secondly, the financial contributions.
I congratulate the rapporteur Karl von Wogau, who takes up the theme but also makes quite plain his demand for clarification, indicates the accompanying measures that need to be taken, and pulls no punches when it comes to the problems currently under discussion.
The Council' s common position was to say that car manufacturers should bear all, or a significant part, of the costs of recovery and recycling.
This would allow too many anomalous projects to slip through.
We believe that decisions in the risk management area should properly remain the preserve of the Commission, Parliament and Council.
I would ask you to allow me to refrain from commenting on this matter.
The damage to your country, Mr President, and to mine, Spain, could be horrendous.
Thank you for your attention.
Management companies which are denied access to a Member State would need to re-incorporate as a different legal entity in order to be permitted in another Member State.
On this point which is of personal interest to me, let me remind you that the small scale of this sector - and this does not necessarily mean that it is an insignificant area - and its concentration in a limited number of regions do not make it easy to analyse in a regional context.
Destabilisation began around ten years ago with the break-up of Yugoslavia, in which the European Union played a decisive part.
Let us not forget that fish are at the very basis of our food chain and that the first 'environmental' disaster, Minamata disease, occurred in 1958 in Japan owing to the fact that fish were polluted by mercury.
The number of women on committees who wield power and frame policies is very small.
It is a question of weighing demands for liberalisation in the interests of a better market and higher yield against investors' need for protection and security.
This means that the ceiling of 0.25% mentioned in Article 23 does not apply with regard to this type of technical assistance.
Well now, Mr Andersson seems to think that the health situation will improve if we restrict the import of alcohol.
I am opposed to making the car owners liable.
Not to improve working conditions, for in increasing production with fewer workers, working conditions are made worse.
Admittedly, there is the International Oil Pollution Compensation Fund, IOPCF, but it waters down the issue of liability and sets its ceiling at a quite inadequate level, which must be reviewed.
Because it is political it is more sovereignty-sensitive.
You ought to also be able to draw conclusions at the IGC.
From that standpoint, the fact that so far it has resisted any influences from its wider environment is a very positive element and under no circumstances should any of us, any State, any policy or any view, impel that small republic towards external, disruptive movements in an effort to solve other problems, granted - let it be noted - that it has institutions which it can build upon still further and so become a real democracy.
In this regard, I am simply pleased - delighted, in fact - here this evening, as a conclusion to this debate, to be able, very appropriately, to inform you that South Africa' s President has today said yes to the solution which the EU' s Council of Foreign Ministers last Monday agreed unanimously to propose with regard to the outstanding problems regarding South Africa.
Furthermore, I cannot stress enough the significance of our having concluded important negotiations on the new convention to succeed the Lomé Convention, and the fact that, following extremely complex and difficult negotiations, we have succeeded in organising - or making preparations for the organisation of - the first EU-Africa Summit.
Developing countries want trade not aid, a help up not a hand-out.
The Mediterranean is an important spawning area for bluefin tuna so therefore it is important that the necessary measures be taken to enhance the protection of juveniles.
There is another central issue relating to democracy that I would like to make clear reference to.
The problem is how in practical terms to implement the compromise which we accepted.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the report which they produced after extremely thorough and meticulous work, your two rapporteurs, Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, proposed that Parliament should adopt a formal opinion pursuant to Article 48 of the Treaty and thus, if this opinion were adopted, the Intergovernmental Conference could effectively start on 14 February, as suggested by the Portuguese Presidency.
I believe they gave him 28% of the vote so there is going to be a coalition government.
This concerns us deeply and that is why we requested this debate today.
We genuinely share your concerns about the threatening situation which exists in Kosovo for ethnic minorities, for both the Serb and Romany populations, and the incidents of discrimination, harassment and intimidation which continue to take place in that region.
It has already been banned in most EU countries for a long time now.
But I am a little sad that the European Development Fund has still not been incorporated in the Community budget.
These discussions have already started, but we will need to take account of the results in Lisbon.
This situation shows that it would be a mistake to leave adopting measures for promoting employment to the exclusive internal control of the Member States, which is what the report proposes.
This programme constitutes a driving force for development on the European scale.
The key aspects were the need for greater coordination and greater complementarity between policies, the need for harmonisation and simplification of the present organisational framework for the Union' s present cooperation policies, the need to make the EU' s aid management more efficient and, in particular, to review its mechanisms for intervention, and also the need to reinforce the assessment system and to introduce greater transparency into the process for granting aid.
I regret that the Commissioner has once again become involved in an imaginative and, in this case, passionate intervention.
No, you have not done so.
The Socialist Group has tabled amendments proposing both quantitative and qualitative safeguard clauses in order to contain the risks to investors.
.
I think Parliament often protests about this method, not to point the finger at any specific party within the Council, and I certainly would not want the Portuguese Presidency to feel responsible for this state of affairs, since, the truth is, it is something of a tradition, which the Council has kept going for a long time.
Many people will argue that of course all that is required in Europe is for us to make better use of our existing resources but I suspect there will be a growing debate in our own countries in the Member States about whether that really is enough, about whether that is going to secure the sort of security policy which we wish to be more responsible for in our own Union.
This is therefore a test of credibility for the Union' s common foreign and security policy.
No living organisms, from microbes to otters, have been spared.
I would therefore like to call on the Presidency of Parliament to consider that it might be appropriate for the Presidency itself to invite the Members to do likewise.
We, the social democrats, would urge the opposition to back these ideas.
I also expect the Commission to be pro-active in supporting us in our call for codecision in legislative procedures.
We need to look very carefully at those.
Mr President, Members of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, without wishing to compete with the Ministers as regards emotions, I have to say that I am not moved, rather I am disturbed to have two personal friends in the presidency for the first time, and I just hope that this fact will not alter the separation of powers which is essential for the proper functioning of the Union!
Last week ECHO decided to allocate EUR 1 million for flood relief, of which 600 000 will be dispersed through the Spanish Red Cross and 150 000 through MSF Luxembourg, for operations in Mozambique and EUR 250 000 to Botswana through the German Red Cross.
Please let this not be yet another sector where we subsequently have to lament the lack of enforcement.
As has happened in the past, the Member States are required to provide answers when the Commission questions them or asks for clarification.
The interests of the citizens are only served by a credible and reliable government.
Amendment No 12 responds to the expectations of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism of this House.
Moreover, we are asking the Russian authorities to provide immediate clarification of conditions in the so-called detention centres, and remind them that those responsible for any arbitrary detention, maltreatment or killing of civilians are laying themselves open to accusations of crimes against humanity.
Could I also say, Madam President, that the understanding of the presidency, the Portuguese presidency, for our position, was absolutely demonstrated in the clearest terms by Mr Da Costa when he said, and I quote him, that 'Portugal and the other Member States want to ensure that the working of the Community machine is not affected by the current situation' .
We have already heard about the various aspects involved.
It is not a situation that most people in this Parliament want, but we need to be careful about the approach we take, so that we do not in the end up with the opposite of what we are trying to achieve.
Let me simply remind you that the Court of Justice pronounced a ruling on this in 1982, as you know better than I. This ruling remains valid and there is nothing to justify any reconsideration thereof.
Mr von Wogau said we can look to the European Court.
I firmly believe that the prudent use of derivatives can help fund secure, safer, higher returns.
I believe this objective is very difficult to achieve without closing down the fish farming sector concerned.
Today, at the end of the 20th century, a single market is operating in Europe in which we will soon be using a single currency.
We are therefore voting against the report and strongly urge the abandonment of the idea of harmonising criminal law on such flimsy grounds. Instead, the focus should be upon preventing the real problem.
I am encouraged by the optimism of Kofi Annan, Secretary-General of the UN, on the chances of agreement on the proposed tribunal.
I completely concur with the draft resolution which is before us.
We shall be developing it in four parallel schemes, in the Agriculture Council, the Health Council, the Consumer Affairs Council and the Internal Market Council.
The advent of the euro at the beginning of last year unleashed enormous competitive forces within European business which are being met by a merger wave of quite unprecedented proportions.
Discussions are being held between the European Commission and Denmark, and Denmark is expected to notify the Commission of the transposition of this directive into its national legislation.
Mr Medina Ortega, I naturally share your concerns and I can assure you that a coastal country like my own, the country currently holding the presidency, is naturally very concerned about this issue, all the more so as it does not have any oil tankers of its own.
These concern, for example, the phasing-out of heavy metals, manufacturer' s liability and the requirement for recycling.
The assumption is that the countries are prepared to accept a certain set of conditions.
Both savers and the industry need modernised regulations for the whole of Europe.
Since, on account of the college system, discharge can only be granted to the Commission as a whole or, alternatively, denied or postponed, it is no longer of any consequence that four former Commissioners who belonged to the previous Commission that has yet to be discharged, crop up again as Members of this body.
There is time.
So what we did was use political means to convince some candidate countries that we have to have decommissioning plans for some reactors that are considered not to be upgradable.
It must also be made clear that Cuba is not going to be asked for more than has been asked of our other partners.
The report laments the lack of a legal basis for a policy on tourism.
I shall immediately give the floor to Mr Seixas da Costa, President-in-Office of the Council.
It appears that there is agreement and support with regard to the prioritisation of South-East Europe, with regard to enlargement and - as I have said already - with regard to the process of integration and the strengthening of the Euro-Mediterranean programme and our ability to prevent conflicts, as well as an issue which we seldom talk about; the North-South challenge.
Diseased fish should not remain in the farms and I am prepared to look into the matter so as to avoid unnecessary shedding of a virus into the environment.
On 24 December, the Angolan court sentenced a correspondent of the Portuguese paper, Expresso, to a year' s imprisonment and a fine of USD 20 000.
In order to achieve the greatest possible legal clarity and proportionality, we wish, however, to reformulate Amendment No 47 and to add a de minimis provision.
The developing countries are asked to fall into line with the liberalisation of trade, despite their vulnerable economies.
But I have come to the conclusion that it was in fact quite clever timing.
This policy would have important economic consequences for the fishing industry in Brittany in that catches could be unloaded at Irish advance bases in order to then be transported to the Breton agri-foodstuffs industry.
Mr President, the Commission will be holding negotiations in the future on the accession of Turkey to the European Union.
You stated that the new European government requires strong institutions, while the Commission wants to focus at the same time on its core tasks.
In September, two members of the party were arrested because they were reported to have been involved in a rocket attack on the prime minister.
With eight out of ten people in Europe living in urban areas, it is right that we help our most deprived communities to tackle the all too familiar problems of deprivation, social exclusion, joblessness, crime, drug dependency and all the problems that are associated with that.
Mr Nielson, what we are waiting for is a good report on these inconsistencies and a number of specific proposals to eliminate these from the policy.
This is exactly the point which Mr Swoboda and also other Members made: fear of modernisation, globalisation, and the individual losing his own sense of safety and security.
Since January 2000, there have been six shootings by loyalists and two by republicans, loyalists have been involved in six serious assaults, one leading to another murder, while republicans have engaged in five serious assaults.
These have now been ratified by twelve or thirteen WIPO Member States, including the United States.
I am glad to see that this was accepted into the report, but I cannot agree with Amendment No 9 because that amendment really is not expressed in simple language at all.
Let it be noted that we are completely united on all three counts.
But what we need is the analytical resources: these issues require the investment of more intellectual capital.
I can live with these minimum standards, but I would ask the Commission to monitor the situation very carefully.
A reduction in the fishing capacity and in pressure from the fishing industry on fish stocks is not necessarily compatible with maintaining an outdated fleet and would limit modernisation.
The vote will take place tomorrow morning.
The work is done. All that remains is the business of enforcement.
I have a related point.
Of course, the final trade-offs will be made, as in any institutional negotiations, and I think this is no bad thing, at Council level, especially at the level of the Council of Heads of State and Government, who hold the key to the success of this conference in their hands.
As a political force, we serve to guarantee that Austria will continue to embrace European values.
In general, I am a great defender of cultural diversity but not in terms of competitiveness within the internal market.
Therefore, according to proponents, such as Mr Désir, an internationally applied Tobin tax would, in principle, reduce speculative transactions and, hence, the volatility of exchange rates, which would lead to an improvement in economic prosperity.
And yet, in the chapter on aid and training for refugees, the report marks a step backwards from the initial text by stipulating that they no longer apply to refugees as such but to "refugees within the meaning of the Geneva Convention" .
These are thus extremely important questions, which we hope that the Council will see fit to take up when formulating a new opinion.
If extra resources were given to the Court of Auditors it would be money well spent, because it would ensure that EU funding was not going to something that conflicted with environmental concerns.
Citizens are believed to have been burnt alive in air-raid shelters.
I am therefore delighted that the Commissioner is well disposed towards a system of this kind.
It is all about the need for modernisation and the future viability of the European competition policy.
This is a useful measure and it is one which we all need.
Nonetheless, these are important criteria for the European Union.
But it is also essential to bear in mind that the various elements of water policy cannot be separated, and that action on this aspect will affect all the others.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
Honourable Members will know that one particular concern of ours has been that there should be a resumption of progress on the multilateral track.
However, the EU' s present policy in the Balkans is fragmentary, inconsistent and schizophrenic in nature.
B5-0168/2000 by Mr Oostlander and Mrs Grossetête on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats,
With most of Europol employees currently engaged in self-control for the purposes of data protection laws and questions being asked by 15 national parliaments, we may have a great deal of control, but it is inefficient control.
Floods in Mozambique
The committee wishes to make the requirements in relation to the Commission' s proposal more stringent.
Mr President, will a European Public Prosecutor be able to abolish football fraud involving EU funds?
It outlines the minimum content of examinations and defines the role of the authorising body as well as the requirements demanded of the examining bodies.
Certain isolated passages in the Commission' s proposal perhaps err on the side of caution, as is the case when it is maintained that the detainee accused should be given the choice of whether to accept or refuse temporary transfer to another Member State of the Union for the purposes of preliminary enquiries.
Mr President, I would like to restrict my contribution to the link between development cooperation and agriculture.
A small step - I say - but nonetheless a welcome one, for which the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs has quite correctly wanted to prescribe further restrictions and guarantees in the name of the defence of the fundamental rights of the individual that are in force in the Member States and in the Union itself, even if these are not yet enshrined in a European Union charter of rights, which we hope will soon come into being: just restrictions and guarantees because, unfortunately, existing rights are, in practice, not always respected by every public authority in every Member State.
You have not integrated it anywhere.
- (PT) Mrs Schleicher, you are quite right to say that we should use our relationship with Turkey to ensure that that country can play a constructive role in this situation and, particularly, that it becomes part of the solution rather than part of the problem.
We feel that at present the central issues about convening an Intergovernmental Conference to amend the Treaties are far more important than the controversy taking place here about the size of the agenda. They are also more important than the controversy over the appropriateness or otherwise of formulating proposals for new issues to be covered, and more important than the controversy over the extent of Parliament' s participation in it.
This Intergovernmental Conference will, at the outset, concentrate on improving the way the institutions operate, particularly taking account of the desire we all share for them specifically to become more democratic, more transparent and more efficient.
One reason they have not been dealt with is that as ever the leopard cannot change its spots, i.e. in the case of this framework decision, which specifically relates to judicial cooperation, the Council once again prefers to adhere to the level of government cooperation.
That is a basic principle which we must uphold.
My second question is of a critical nature.
It was about gradual liberalisation; it was about a guaranteed universal service at an affordable price; it was about direct mail and cross-border mail remaining in the reserved sector.
As you know, there is a glaring difference between the status of development policies and other EU policies - you only have to look at the difficult circumstances surrounding the EDF' s financing, or rather lack of financing.
The radical step taken by this report is to allow UCITS to use over-the-counter derivatives.
After having heard Prime Minister Guterres, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and yourself, I have confidence in the ambition of the Portuguese Presidency and the extremely proactive way in which it will conduct these negotiations.
We abstained from the vote on the motion for a resolution for the following reasons.
Just look at transport policy; clearly it is crucial for this policy to be drawn up as a economically and ecologically sensible policy before the accession of other countries.
-
At the time of that visit I will also, as recommended by honourable Members and others, be upgrading our representation in FYROM.
I therefore immediately give the floor to the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
The new initiative will continue to pursue these goals by reinforcing them, while particularly promoting equal opportunities between men and women and integrating socially marginalised and disadvantaged groups.
The issue which we should all raise, and I did so myself, in a diplomatic way, a while ago, concerns the very substance of Security Council Resolution 12/99.
I understand and welcome that and I hope that the recommendations will be adhered to.
Justice needs to be done in Indonesia.
We would warn against that trend. We have this AFSJ mantra - Area of Freedom, Security and Justice - the full enormity of which lies in its establishment of EU systems which will play havoc with existing legal traditions relating to these sensitive and important questions which are overwhelmingly national in character.
. (FR) Considering the employment situation in the Community and the European Union' s declared ambition to steadfastly attack unemployment, the analysis of mergers carried out by the Commission should take elements other than competition into consideration.
And they must be consistent with similar measures already taken.
Of course capital markets need clarity - that is actually the idea.
Confronted with this threat, which carries with it the negation of the very idea which lies at the heart of the construction of Europe, nothing must deter us: not the legal quibbling about what the treaty does or does not permit, not the legitimate questions about the right to intervene, not the derisory respect for formal democracy, and, above all, not the feeling of powerlessness which grips us in the face of an event which we reject with all the force of our convictions but which we are powerless to control.
Secondly, this is not fair towards employees of other companies where reorganisations also take place and where it hurts too.
Already at the Intergovernmental Conference, social policy issues are being addressed more broadly and I believe we are in a new phase, in which social policy will, to a large extent, become a European policy.
This applies, as already stated, to the United Kingdom and it also applies to Belgium, where it was recently of relevance.
I expressly support the rapporteur as regards the need to extend this protection to national currencies which can continue to be exchanged after they have been withdrawn from circulation.
It is precisely this process that undermines confidence every year.
How can we talk of increasing the sphere of competence of the Court of First Instance when we know that we need to increase the number of judges in that Court because it is overstretched?
But I warn against using these programmes to take urban culture to the countryside.
Yet how can the gulf between political rhetoric and reality be filled?
In the meantime, we need positive action and this means the use of quotas and other measures.
I did not ask what the Council thought of the proposal which the Commission has still not tabled.
In a nutshell, can you not see that nowadays all these evil deeds are committed for humanitarian reasons.
The second point that I want to make concerns information technology.
Let me make a few comments on aspects on which views may differ somewhat, although, even in this regard, I want to strongly emphasise and acknowledge Commissioner Patten' s activities and interest in relation to FYROM and the region as a whole.
Furthermore, if a ship is no longer seaworthy, not only should the facts be examined, but a legal system should be introduced which states or recommends that the vessel should no longer be used.
Version 3 is already much weaker than Version 2 following the comments of US industry as relayed by the US Government.
All provisions, i.e. issues relating to entry into the EU and to the law pertaining to residence rights, should be regarded as ancillary to this freedom to provide services.
Any failure to produce these certificates must lead to the ship being laid up and prohibited from leaving the port, regardless of all the port charges.
Like honourable Members, I welcome the United States' efforts that have relaunched the Syrian/Israeli negotiations, despite the Syrian decision that they needed more time before resuming the talks that were scheduled to start again today.
Think of last year' s deadly criticism of the Commission' s lack of propriety, ethics and accountability.
We should therefore direct more attention to monitoring and conflict prevention as a matter of urgency.
In the last 30 years, the volume of currency transactions has increased by 83 times: firstly, total global reserves of all central banks barely amounts to one day of foreign exchange trading; secondly, annual global trade in real goods and services equals just three-and-a-half days of foreign exchange markets out of 350, that is, 1% of capital movements are for trade in goods and services and 99% are for speculation.
The Archbishop of Milan, Monsignor Carlo Maria Martini, is calling upon all politicians, in particular those like you and me, President Prodi, for whom the cultural and historic principle behind their presence in politics is the principle of the active involvement of Catholics in politics, to reconsider a development process, which, in addition to economic profit, takes the marginalised and those left behind by society very much into account.
We have to keep the pressure up in all areas by removing further barriers, intensifying pressure on Member States who fail to implement single market measures and, of course, extending into crucial new areas like financial services.
The report states that modernisation does not mean a reduction in the level of social protection but, rather, better use of available resources.
I remember that at the last mid-term review, when I was rapporteur, the then Commissioner Marin said that review would be the last.
We are discussing coherence here.
The fact is that the prime concerns are the strengthening of executive power, the development of closer relations with liberalism in the countries of Eastern Europe and the relaunch of the militarisation of Europe, particularly by increasing military budgets.
Our Group emphasises the importance of the principle of subsidiarity, the responsibility of Member States and the role of local players in drafting and implementing programmes.
He has led efforts to end provision for Austria' s Slovene-speaking minority and assistance to immigrants.
This is naturally on the condition that the delay does not exceed three weeks, as Prime Minister Barak has promised.
Rationalised management and improved profits should, in my view, serve the company and hence its employees first and foremost, and any financial benefits should follow.
The important thing is that we are consistent, and I have been committed to working towards this consistency ever since I accepted the position of Commissioner.
I welcome the continuation of INTERREG and the priority which it has been accorded.
However, it is almost impossible to understand and correctly assess all the different situations and expectations.
This must also be a main priority in the work of the Commission. It must be complemented with a forthright fight against racism and intolerance so that we may come to recognise, in practice, the evolution of a Union which has become a magnet for the rest of the world and an immigration zone, given its prosperity and seasonal demographics.
We applaud the stabilisation and association agreements, but we would like to see more.
The non-availability of precise criteria for the definition of government deficit would produce distortions in the estimates of the Member States' government deficits.
Mr President, I feel that the guidelines for the Community EQUAL initiative, especially the four actions described in it, will result both in complicated bureaucracy and, paradoxically, a non-transparent structure.
Thank you, Commissioner.
And just what is Mr CFSP doing?
The first principle means creating a new 'pact' between farmers and society, making the farmer 'steward of the countryside' and ensuring that society is prepared to pay for the environmental services needed to safeguard the countryside' s recreation value.
This should be decided by a Conference of the fifteen countries to look at the gap between what we want and what we have and to see how to distribute what we need among the fifteen Member States.
In all modesty, I would claim that this is something that documents that the Commission is willing to walk or fly the extra mile in order to ensure coherence between the perspective of development cooperation and the perspective of trade interests.
A preliminary draft directive intended to regulate the management of such waste has been through three successive versions, the most recent of which dates from July 1999.
Is it not the case that on votes other than roll-call votes, the vote should take place initially by show of hands and only then, if there is some doubt, should we utilise the electronic voting system?
The Erika incident could not illustrate the point more clearly because it sums up exactly what that White Paper is seeking to address.
The scheduled date of 1 January 2003 for implementation of the next steps remains feasible.
In fact, competition policy and consumer policy belong together.
But when it comes to aid, we ought to bear in mind that perhaps in future, more emphasis should be placed on laying electricity and telephone cabling underground.
End-of-life vehicles
The most important thing is that a multi-annual programme be guaranteed, and in the correct category, so that it might be possible to begin making plans where Cyprus and Malta are concerned.
It seems inconsistent to opt for an extremely prudent approach with regard to investments as non-harmonised funds or deposits and, at the same time, freely to allow investments in clearly more risky OTC instruments.
On the other hand, the Portuguese Presidency will continue, if and when the new WTO round begins within its term of office, which is by no means guaranteed, to ensure that the presence of Community production on international markets is strengthened. It will also continue to ensure a greater balance between exported Community farm products and preserving the multifunctional European agriculture to which I have just referred.
The Commission is aware of your request to proceed immediately with a revision of the European Works Council Directive.
Concerning Mr Evans' point regarding the implications for businesses, it is important that the cost-benefit analysis should be seriously conducted.
So we must practise selective fishing.
Any cost-benefit analysis which truly takes into account all the harm occasioned to persons and the environment by these accidents, is bound to support this approach.
Instead, we should go for good-quality projects that can act as a catalyst to effect change and renewal, to attract inward investment in terms of loans and venture capital and to achieve a multiplier effect.
Moreover, the guidelines may not substitute for the programming or the ex ante assessments which must be the tool used to specify priorities and the effectiveness of these programmes.
Madam President, I want to condemn the absence of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council.
The level of racism in our society is terrifying.
The Commission has to take a decision on whether the matter is closed or whether it should refer it to the European Court of Justice.
Our citizens do not need any new institutions and certainly no new mixing of powers.
Ladies and gentlemen, considerable progress has been made on the road to real convergence, particularly for the four cohesion countries, but also frankly, Mr Pohjamo, for the Objective 2 regions which had suffered some delays in terms of development, especially regarding infrastructure.
We need to have this streamlined approach on tourism which covers all the policies.
Of course we need to aim high, but quotas must not become an end in themselves.
It is, of course, these issues which people go to the polls about and which lead to new majorities in the Folketing and other parliaments.
I have particular concerns regarding the fate of SMEs which will lose part of their legal and financial protection, as is already the case, one has got to admit, within the new vertical group exemption for the distribution sector.
This needs to be said!
On this occasion we have had six minutes of questions from the floor of the House and we have had 29 minutes of response by the Commissioner, and his statement.
I am in favour of collection free of charge.
With regard to your specific concern, I can say that, as in the previous period, the Commission does not intend to directly finance through the Structural Funds research and technical development in the area of nuclear fusion or fission.
One or two speeches have referred to specific issues which we are well advised to think about very carefully.
The Council's common position is totally inadequate in a number of areas.
We know that each generation has, over the course of time, blindly bought into what could be called a dominant ideology. This is a set of prejudices accepted as such due to a general conformism, but whose dramatic nature can be seen by subsequent generations.
The problem is just that this is not something the EU can introduce by means of legislative decrees and other supranational resolutions.
It is only thanks to the immense efforts of Mrs Cederschiöld and to Parliament' s decision not to stand by its democratic right to conduct its advisory procedure over an adequate period of time and to have all the documents available in all the languages, that we have now managed to give our position by the date set by the Council, so that the decision scheduled for March can indeed be taken.
Mr Mulder mentioned that no farmer will start producing anything if the price is too low.
The citizens ask what happens if the criteria are not met.
Our Group also considers it important to take greater account of remote and peripheral areas and wishes to increase interaction between towns and rural areas.
We will, however, consider raising the matter with the Turkish authorities, together with other issues concerning regional development policies in the framework of the new pre-accession strategy for Turkey.
The first is concerned with financing the Member States in implementing the Community programmes.
Therefore, once our legislation has been brought into line, we must follow this up immediately with appropriate law. We must also put in place systematic controls and finally apply the 'polluter pays' principle of responsibility which is, of course, supposed to be a deterrent.
I therefore welcome the Commission' s initiative to create a new legal base for combating scrapie.
Finally, will you make sure that in the meantime Parliament's rules are properly implemented and that assistants are paid, as they should be, on the basis of all the work they do for us?
I should like to ask the House to wake up, at long last, to the appalling situation of the victims of policies for which the establishment, not the yobs, bears full responsibility.
But that cannot be helped.
VOTE
Given this situation, the report approved by Parliament must highlight the need for measures that aim unequivocally to fight relative poverty and unemployment: measures such as the appropriate use of structural funds for these purposes, which are often misspent, with centralised state policies and the modernisation of telecommunication and communication systems, with the particular aim of integrating the least developed regions into the Trans-European rail Networks, which are due in 2007.
I want to remind Mr Prodi, and his colleagues who are still here, of the findings of the Commission' s own survey among 3000 European businesses.
Society needs, therefore, to take responsibility for the rapid and vigorous expansion of a modern IT infrastructure which also reaches small companies, poor regions and ordinary citizens.
Finally, I am concerned by the paucity of the amount allocated, if you consider, in addition, that this time the programme is available to all the countries of the Union and will be implemented for a year longer than the previous LEADER II.
Because this citizen - one in five globally - still has no access to elementary social provisions, such as education and health care.
First of all, who is to bear the financial costs of this destruction?
These programmes promoted cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation within the European Union by encouraging balanced development of the Community area.
Crime in the European Union has increased to such an extent that we cannot and must not content ourselves any longer with a step-by-step approach of mutual legal assistance in criminal affairs.
Madam President, I simply wanted to add my voice to that of Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi before the vote started, to say that I regret very much the absence of the Council from this debate on such important votes on matters of the Third Pillar.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Patten.
And, in the absence of any energetic action by the Commission, the situation has gone on for far too long.
There is a large degree of state protectionism in the French market which is not found in the English market and is only present to an extremely limited extent in Italy.
A number of Members of Parliament have quite rightly raised this point. If the Union is purely an economic union, then it is a stillborn project.
It also emphasised the importance of abolishing gender inequalities and as I travel through Africa and see the work done by women I only wish there were more women in senior government positions and in presidential posts.
The von Wogau report proposes referring supervision of the legitimacy of individual cases to national level.
The ÖVP (Austrian People's Party), whose presence at European level we have also come to take for granted, is daring to attempt a coalition for the sake of governability in Austria.
A reform of this point was therefore also necessary.
In brief, this Parliament wanted the convention to apply solely to criminal matters; the restrictions on freedom and on fundamental rights set out in the convention can but be limited to criminal matters.
For example, adapting EQUAL to the objectives of employability and the flexibilisation of labour relations transforms this initiative into a new version of local employment contracts.
We also feel that it is particularly important to state that the recovery seen in some regions - where it did actually take place - was accompanied only to a limited extent by growth in employment. This consequently imposes the need for new development strategies, with a considerably greater level of attention needing to be paid to this area.
The next item is the statement by the Council and the Commission on the coherence of EU policies with development.
Instead of prematurely condemning the FPÖ and the Austrian Government which is being formed, there should first be a critical examination and assessment of the governmental declaration and the party programme and policies of the coalition.
It is not always easy to describe exactly how this process is done, but there is no question of changing the scientific base.
This vision must translate into regional action plans for sustainable water management and water control.
Which citizens will it cover (those of the European Union or the citizens of all European countries with a view to enlargement? Will it cover immigrants etc.?)?
As I said at the beginning, the conclusions of the Helsinki European Council last December have had a visible impact on the way the positions of the various parties to this process have developed.
The German Social Democrats voted against the von Wogau report because, in their view, it might break up European policy on competition, which is to say, in plain terms, attacking the standardising superstate.
The level of aid is naturally important, and the level of aid contributed by the rich countries as a whole ought to be increased.
I am counting more on the European Parliament to be not only a critical observer, as it has been in this case, but also an active player in taking the Union forward in the fight against crime.
As the smallest Community initiative in existence, we therefore proposed an increase in its funding through an amendment which was rejected.
I presume, however, that this is not a particularly controversial matter and we think that it would simply involve bringing together the currently agreed corpus of rights, which even the most elementary justice would suggest should be included in the charter and be shared by the Union as a whole.
The system currently in force creates transparency, affords enterprises legal certainty and has, without a shadow of a doubt, led to discipline and acted as a deterrent on account of the notification requirement.
Considerable progress has been made on our proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation under Article 152 of the Treaty on the prevention and control of TSEs.
I withdraw the two other amendments - that is Amendment No 18 to the report on self-employed persons and Amendment No 21 on employed persons.
Can you tell us your position on this subject?
If we do this, then heading 7 would be increased accordingly but heading 4 would be decreased by the same amount.
At midday, Mr Gama referred to the financial and commercial support provided by Europe to the region.
Although local action groups should consist of a balanced and representative selection of partners drawn from the different socio-economic sectors of the territory concerned, government officials must be involved at decision-making level, whether they come from the municipalities, departments, regions or national governments.
Subject: The Boyne Estuary and the Drogheda Port Company The Boyne Estuary is designated a Special Protection Area (SPA) under the Wild Birds Directive and is under consideration for designation as a Special Area of Conservation under the Habitats Directive, as it is an area of international importance.
It must not be allowed to remain a mere declaration.
I visited Ethiopia and Eritrea to gain first-hand knowledge.
We are at the start of a millennium and a century which we hope will be decisive for women and for their opportunity to occupy decision-making positions.
Let me give you three examples.
Is that not the lesson of the European Union itself and of the single market in particular?
The Commission is committed to a universal postal service, as the European Parliament has shown on several occasions, the postal service is actually, as some speakers have already mentioned, a key factor in social and territorial cohesion.
In this respect, the ALTENER programme will be able to create new incentives and smooth the way for investment, and help us to realise our ambition, in the interests of environmental protection, the economy and creating new jobs.
There is a problem, however, which we need to address together.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism adopted this opinion on the EQUAL report at its concluding discussion with no votes against and one abstention.
For example, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler spoke in English about 'long-term capital for long-term projects' - this is an obvious issue.
I think that the vote has shown that although the common position of the Council has been toned down, the major groups here (and above all the German delegates of the major groups) have not, thank God, succeeded in destroying the heart of the directive, namely manufacturer responsibility.
In today' s globalised world, this fact is all the more obvious.
Rapid action is called for!
Madam President, it is in itself an achievement that we are having this debate on the new URBAN Community initiative and it is an achievement that I am here tonight because Air France cancelled my flight at 2.10 p.m. but I am here!
An essential element will be support for democracy and human rights, including specific initiatives to strengthen democratic institutions and civil society.
Both LEADER 1 and LEADER 2, which were implemented in the 1990s, were ingredients of the new CAP that emerged after its review in 1992 and, along with other respective measures, they constituted the so-termed second pillar of the EU' s rural development policy.
'Long-winded' .
They cannot therefore be approved.
It seemed to us that the agenda lacked content, because our group was thinking in terms of the Treaty and, specifically, the protocol on the Union' s institutions.
What guarantees do we have that they will grow into first-class players in the league of the internal market?
Often these problems are compounded by poor health and housing stock and a culture of drug dependency.
These are the reasons why the guidelines are presented according to thematic priorities, since they must be taken into consideration, under each of the objectives, to different extents in accordance with the specific situations of each of the Member States and regions.
Do you agree that the assistants have a legitimate case which must be heard?
Yet again, workers are likely to lose their jobs.
Of course, the Minutes for tomorrow' s sitting will take into account any additional explanations.
Enlargement - and Alleanza Nazionale has been repeating this for ten years in this House - must not mean dilution, that is, it must not entail more risks.
These are just two examples of real life problems behind delays in Europe' s system of justice. Delays in justice can mean personal difficulties and even tragedy.
Not at all.
Mr Rübig has the floor.
The common position, which was arrived at with great difficulty in the Council, which the Commission has endorsed and which was also maintained in Parliament' s Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, complies fully with the environmental requirements. I therefore find it incomprehensible and very curious to see amendments from members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, the objectives of which are to weaken the environmental requirements and significantly reduce car manufacturers' liability.
All we would have to do is get a directory of development and put all the items in our programme, one after the other.
This list of actions, which is not exhaustive, should, here today, in the presence of the Council Presidency and of the Members of this House, help to make it clear that, while 1999 was a year of consolidation for EU action in this key area, it also - I very much hope - represented the start of a new phase, marked by the desire to speed up the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice.
We disagree with many of the report' s views.
Let us consider the scenario whereby the Commission, not believing itself to be equal to the task, wishes, or proposes to shed, for example, its powers to implement common policies, which it is nevertheless accorded by the Treaty.
Reread the letter: The reference to the fundamental values of the Union is taken - and this is more than mere coincidence - from Article 6 of the Treaty, I repeat, Article 6 of the Treaty.
I would say the same about Amendment No 2, which we would also accept with a slight modification, since the idea seems to us to be basically correct.
However, such a strategy should come within the framework of environmental policy.
I shall conclude with a few words about the Internet revolution.
We must strike a balance between them.
A number of you made reference - Mr Nicholson in particular - to the issue surrounding labelling.
What I learned is that, actually, there is sufficient legislation in place but the problem is the lack of supervision.
As you know, it is up to each State to redistribute part of the total appropriation.
Parliament has tabled a number of amendments to the present proposal, for example in regard to jurisdiction, the idea being that a person may only be prosecuted and sentenced in the one country for the same crime.
I therefore think that regardless of whether we finally conclude who should decide whether such diversions take place, the specifications common to us all must be very stringent.
Mrs Gillig, but others like Mr Markov and Mr Ésclope, voiced concerns about employment.
I became convinced of this in Sarajevo when I had to negotiate the periodic exchanges of prisoners which accompanied each successive ceasefire agreement, none of which unfortunately lasted, between the parties to the conflict.
Article 3 of the Treaty states that, in all the activities referred to in this Article, the Community shall aim to eliminate inequalities, and to promote equality, between women and men.
Obviously, he said "the federal solution would be best" .
When we discuss the TSE regulation, Commissioner, we must also clarify that we shortly intend to discuss separate proposals under Article 152 as the corresponding legal base for products excluded from this regulation, such as cosmetics, medicinal products or animal feed.
Not only that a conclusion can be reached, but that a successful conclusion can be reached, which is not necessarily the same thing.
By means of amendments adopted in committee, Parliament has tried to supplement the Commission' s work, by including new elements in the list of areas targeted for aid, and in particular external border areas and maritime border areas in Southern Europe.
The UN Convention on Human Rights 50 years ago was an attempt to correct this.
The major part of European Union aid has been provided under the TACIS programme.
But, Mr Marinos, in the EU context, culture is an issue which is repeatedly raised in connection with IGC agendas.
Straight away I should like to express my thanks to the rapporteurs from the committees, from all the committees, but also to the speakers for the groups and to each and every one of you for the quality of your speeches and the great interest they express with regard to these two initiatives.
The Commission welcomes, above all, Amendments Nos 1, 2, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 13, which apply to the Committee procedures.
Because this witch hunt which broke out in the province of Almería should have been foreseen.
You condemn the first direct attack on the KFOR troops.
As for the Southern stocks of anchovy in ICES zone IX, the TAC was fixed at 10 000 tonnes for the whole of 2000 as opposed to 13 000 tonnes in 1999.
Mr President, I hold Mr Florenz in high esteem.
Mr President, the Commission is conscious of the very difficult situation concerning health and health facilities in Kosovo, not just for pregnant women but across the board.
That is why he deserves special mention!
Coming from the border counties in the north-west of Ireland, I have seen over the years the important role which INTERREG I and II have played and I am delighted to welcome INTERREG III.
My request is, in fact, to put this country back on the top of the agenda.
Too late, too selective and too fragmented: this is how one could describe the human rights policy of the international community.
We thought we had eradicated the terror of intolerance which racism had unleashed in Europe. Yet, over the years, social disintegration in Europe has been combining with an increase in migration from surrounding countries and increased awareness of human rights to develop into this climate of racism and intolerance.
Yet it is very wide-ranging and involves many other factors including pollution and maritime transport.
Finally, I would like to say that we have to consider safety in all types of transport.
Mr President, I too would like to welcome the President-in-Office to the Chamber.
The inconsistency is astonishing.
I hope everyone, like Mr Decourrière, whom I congratulate, will realise this!
Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the LEADER report, rural development is very much to the fore.
I shall therefore vote against this proposed amendment.
But it is also a very vulnerable sector, as we recently saw with the oil slick.
Agenda
Exemplary because it proves that the Balkan countries are not at the mercy of fate and that those of them which so wish are already in a position to meet the standard requirements imposed by the European Union in stability and association agreements.
It is therefore high time that we thought both about supervisory regulations and about transparency on the financial markets and their information.
It is true that it is a stopgap solution, but we must rely on stopgap solutions because, at the moment - as he himself has pointed out - we cannot expect a broad reform of the system from the Intergovernmental Conference.
All of us here are pleased that the courts have acquitted him and made it clear that in Russia, too, access to environmental information is a constitutional right.
This means that they must function more simply and more rapidly.
We hope that this, at the least, will come about during the evaluation process.
I do not consider that the Council tried to answer my question.
Firstly, we need to make the EU' s development policy more effective.
What, finally, do we want to see as the first steps?
I agree with the rapporteur that the European fisheries and environmental policies should be better coordinated.
Mr President, there are economic frontiers within the European Union, and the internal market with the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is fully operating at this time.
But we must look always to subsidiarity.
On the other hand, such a policy shows a deep contempt for women.
However, the directive is ten years old and, now that the markets have developed and more and more sophisticated financial products are available, it is somewhat outdated.
Those of us who have had to live under a dictatorship know of the existence of dictatorships with cardboard governments.
However, I would like to concentrate on two points.
He has fewer than 2 000 officers, and it was agreed that there should be nearly 5 000.
It is worrying that the position adopted by the previous Parliament does not support this balanced WIPO system.
Today' s political statement on this issue was very positive indeed, and one which I welcome.
The objective is that these priorities should contribute to the better use, to the optimum and efficient use, as some of you have wished, of Community involvement, including, Mr Bradbourn, using, if necessary, the performance reserve which is specifically intended to encourage the optimum and efficient use of European public monies.
The European Union' s position on the approach to be adopted towards China in the Human Rights Commission was confirmed at the General Affairs Council on 21 March 1999: there was no European Union initiative on China nor was agreement reached to co-sponsor a resolution on China, but an EU vote against the no-action motion.
To fail in this respect would mean food for today but hunger for tomorrow, not just for our fishermen and the people of Europe but, more seriously, for humanity as a whole.
The reform is important but, if it aggravates the situation, reduces or weakens the supranational powers of the Commission, then the structure of European integration, as planned by the founding fathers for the European Commission, will be at risk.
But all exhibitions must be carried out in a way that do not interfere with the orderly running of Parliament.
Do you think that so much inaction is excusable when, on the continent of Europe itself, the right to life is at risk?
What is a legitimate target is obviously a grey area.
Allow me to emphasise that this is communitisation, not renationalisation, of competition law.
And when is more responsibility to be transferred to local democratic authorities?
We have so many coordinators, who, in turn, are responsible to so many employers, that we will soon have to employ a coordinator for the coordinators.
The importance of the tourist industry and its impact on employment - although everyone is now aware of this - is nevertheless based more on personal experience rather than on verifiable statistical data.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has even suggested postponing approval of the Brok report until the Council agrees to increase the financial ceilings for category 7.
It is not the establishments but the instruments which should have a high rating.
The more powerful this Europe becomes and the more vigilant it is towards authoritarian tendencies in the Europe of today, the more successful we will be in striking at the roots of right-wing extremism.
Others would argue that we should suspend judgement until we see the detail of such an agreement.
Today, a small delegation of workers is here with us in the gallery, anxious to find out what their future will be, what solidarity the European Union will offer them and what policy it will adopt to prevent the multinationals acting solely and exclusively in the interest of their own market and profits.
At any rate, the Commission is against any attempt to restrict capital movement within the European Union.
The ECSC Treaty is due to expire shortly.
It has affected the peoples of three countries - Romania, Hungary and Yugoslavia.
Of course this is also the basic idea.
In fact, the guidelines take two horizontal principles into account. The first is rural development, and let me say, Mrs Schroedter, that I am including in rural development the matter of sustainable transport, an issue I have been involved in personally for a long time.
It is interesting to note that all rural areas may be eligible for LEADER II.
It is not, therefore, about harmonisation but about common objectives.
Surely we should be more selective.
Without national reconciliation, reconciliation with Europe is not possible.
It can accept all of the others either in full or in essence.
I believe that, despite the fears that may be felt by the two communities on the island, these points, which could be viewed in a negative light by the authorities on both sides, may in the end justify hopes of an ultimate solution.
The debate is closed.
The Council therefore, has no means of changing the role conferred on the Court of Auditors by the Treaty.
I would propose that we carry on in the normal way for the time being.
In particular we support the development of a free, democratic and multi-ethnic society.
More generally, those signatories who take part in or have taken part in government in the various States of the European Union must take their share of responsibility in the influence which the extreme right has managed to gain since their policy, devoted exclusively to the interests of big business, has not included taking action likely to eradicate unemployment and the poverty it engenders, and has thus facilitated the xenophobic demagoguery of the extreme right.
Two important questions have arisen in this regard. Yes, there are in fact more than two questions, but I want to mention just two of the most important.
In conclusion, the document is not particularly satisfactory, and in some aspects is disappointing.
Certain politically important aspects of the new partnership agreement will have contributed to these.
Today, we have the chance to prevent it; tomorrow it may be too late.
In this connection, too, weight has to be given to the decisive importance of SMEs as employers and forces behind regional development.
This is the change we must impose on the Commission' s action.
The Commission sympathises with these considerations.
Madam President, it would really be very difficult to imagine a debate which is more in accordance with Rule 50 of our Rules of Procedure.
We shall thereby be able to replace poverty, dependency and alienation with equity, initiative and participation.
Madame McNally, in general, I am myself rather concerned at the increasing number of problems we are having with the translations.
Furthermore, Europe has signed international conventions, in particular the OSPAR Convention in which it made certain commitments.
Do please raise this issue at the intergovernmental conference.
What steps will the Council take to prevent nuclear accidents and the proliferation of nuclear weapons in a country that wishes to join the EU but spends enormous amounts on nuclear programmes while receiving financial aid from the EU budget?
Mr Swoboda' s well-balanced and laudable report fits in with this unexpected and delightful upshot on a very practical level.
We have heard anxieties expressed on that point and I will ensure it is taken up.
In mixed fisheries, you cannot discriminate.
The Court of Justice is to monitor the legality of the legislative acts.
The situation should also remind us all that the ratification of the Treaty for an International Criminal Court has been shamefully slow.
Another factor is that the world market is growing explosively.
To this end, I would like to remind you of the resolution of 15 September, which recommended that the proposal be presented as soon as possible.
We have to state again that there is still no confirmation that depleted uranium was used in the conflict and no depleted uranium has been detected in the clean-up of Kosovo.
I do not have exact figures, but the Community' s budgetary discipline and the associated implementing provisions apply to almost 100 different areas of responsibility of the financial controller, to his or her independence and the tasks assigned to this office.
There are areas of coherence I would like to see as a member of the Committee on Development that would probably horrify some of the members of the Committee on Agriculture or Committee on Fisheries.
Madam President, the agenda has been rearranged so many times that I would simply ask the Chamber to support the present proposal.
We are left with Article 11(1) which says that the appropriations of the funds may not replace public or other equivalent structural expenditure by the Member States.
Commissioner Monti, the principle of competition cannot be applied to interpersonal relationships: postal services must be improved, not run down.
We are submitting a wide range of proposals to the effect, for example, that there should be a transition to individualised social security systems; that parental leave should involve entitlement to benefits under the social security systems; that there should be better opportunities to combine family and working life; and that the basic old-age pension should guarantee a decent standard of living.
Yet these represent a serious threat to the principle of 'non-refoulement' [no turning back].
There have also been considerable anxieties expressed about the potential danger to the archaeological heritage in the area.
The compatibility with the various national systems of law, as confirmed by experts, shows that criminal law is another area where Europe has a great deal in common, for example where the significance of the offences we have been discussing here is concerned.
As long as this harmonisation has not been achieved, however, we need to be consistent if we want to bring about mutual legal assistance.
Not only do we owe the sweeping reforms to the new Member States, but we owe them to ourselves.
Acceptance of Amendment No 17 by the Commission would mean that a simple duty of notification would apply if no valid card is issued.
I am mindful of the fact that it was in fact the European Parliament which made the political decision and supported the continuation of this initiative for the regeneration of urban areas in difficulties, in favour of sustainable urban development, involving at the same time this integrated approach, which we value, to handle the economic, social and environmental aspects simultaneously.
I just want to outline some of the issues that we, as Socialists, have put down as amendments.
This programme will hopefully encourage Member States to act with greater determination to increase the use of renewable energy.
Within a few hours of the presentation of the report President Santer announced the resignation of his entire team.
This will help us to restore the credibility of the EU and the confidence of citizens that Europe can deliver local action to solve local problems.
(Applause)
The Council and Commission have suggested deleting the protocols under category 4.
It is important to point this out.
No indications of contamination were found in Kosovo during the BTF fact-finding mission.
For me, these are the most serious contradictions in all this, more serious than the contradictions inherent in any incompatibility between sectoral policies.
Yes, conventions have been signed, but action is needed.
Thank you, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
Finally, we were shocked to learn that the cargo was extremely carcinogenic, with a polyaromatic hydrocarbon content of more than 1 000 parts per million.
But this is not just a masterpiece of hypocrisy, it is also an aberration, because, if negotiations begin tomorrow, this agreement will be signed in a year and will come into force in three years.
Future actions will take place within the stability pact for south-eastern Europe. A special regional environmental reconstruction plan is also being developed.
In such circumstances will it even be worth having elections?
In other words, when EU commercial interests are concerned, poverty considerations go out of the window.
I and my colleague Dominique Souchet, who is well versed in this matter, have tabled five amendments highlighting the role of SMEs and craft trades within the framework of INTERREG, the importance of cooperation between undertakings and the need to involve economic and social partners in the design and implementation of the programmes and I welcome the fact that these amendments were adopted unanimously.
Every day the news brings more proof of our subservience.
In this connection, the European Parliament is also justified in insisting that it should be possible to amend the thematic priorities only after a further hearing in Parliament.
Mr Wurtz, in no way can it be said that the Council is maintaining an ambiguous silence about this issue: the Council assumes total responsibility for its interpretation of the situation in Cyprus.
I would ask that they reconsider, since this is not the case.
Yet the worst part is that there is no way out of the situation in Angola.
There are postal companies which have a monopoly and are doing a reasonably good job.
In the middle of an election campaign, a series of authorities, all of them run by the party in government, made clearly electioneering speeches which, furthermore, were broadcast live on television.
Indeed, these areas - and it is right to stress this - have an important role to play as an interface with the applicant countries that are going to join the Union.
I know what I am talking about and I will conclude by telling you why I am so glad we are holding this debate!
We will either be able to restore water quality to suit the planet' s ecosystem or we will experience a whole range of adverse events which will threaten the development of certain regions, the living conditions of the inhabitants of other regions and even, more fundamentally, the global balance.
Globalisation could easily come to be regarded as a harmful process.
They are areas where there is much need and we have to put them on an equal footing with those areas where we work in cooperation, where almost none exists.
This discussion, which is being held in some parts of Europe and here too under the French banner of parité, touches the very core of democracy, and is also about the political significance which we are prepared to accord to being a woman.
I think after her speech she will receive a cascade of letters from the Chinese authorities.
We are convinced that the cornerstone of successful adaptation to change is dialogue at all levels and with full and transparent information as its basis.
But at the final negotiating session the EU claimed that it had never actually agreed to the inclusion of islands and landlocked states among those which would qualify for the support on the basis of the 2% threshold.
It is crucial for us that it should be possible for this Intergovernmental Conference to be concluded before the end of the year 2000 so that there are no remaining formalities, such as the weighting of votes in the Council of Ministers and the composition of the Commission and the European Parliament, which place obstacles in the way of the enlargement of the EU.
Attention must be paid in the LEADER+ programme to all the sectors of the economy in rural areas; only a combined effort will reap an optimal result.
The debate about either extending the Lomé Convention with its quotas and protectionism, or, instead, gradually winding down the special relationship between the European Union and the ACP countries in the name of free trade, is a warped debate between two ways of perpetuating the pillage and impoverishment of those countries.
However, in the Spanish version the 'abogado' has disappeared completely.
Shipwreck of the Erika
In any case, I wish to say to those who believe that their rights in that respect were ignored that adequate means of enforcement and redress are available to them, notably through relevant national jurisdictional instances.
She could not be here because she was arrested yesterday morning during an anti-nuclear demonstration in Glasgow.
What is the idea behind preventing people from working when they wish to do so?
The virus is known not to survive above 25o Celsius and scientists have therefore agreed that no threat to human health exists; it simply cannot survive in warm-blooded creatures.
It is vital that when violations are committed, the perpetrators should not be able to act with impunity, whoever or wherever they may be - in Indonesia or Angola, in Cuba, China or Burma, whether the perpetrators are civilians or soldiers, humble foot-soldier or general or even a minister.
We need hard and fast rules.
Only then can we follow in the footsteps of the founders of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
The idea of a single criminal code and the European Public Prosecutor is something which Member States have a right to be informed about.
As described this afternoon it will go a long way towards drowning out some of the unpleasant tunes we heard during the European election and over the last few months.
Finally, I would like to say that it is now essential that we also raise this issue at the Intergovernmental Conference.
There too, of course, outstanding matters in dispute are the water problem and the situation of the Lebanese Palestinian refugees.
Mr President, I see in the Minutes that two Members spoke yesterday about delayed flights to Strasbourg on Monday.
Dismantling the postal service, the local communication service, would be a serious mistake and we would be unable to maintain the principle of the equality of all citizens.
This is not desirable, either from the point of view of tourism itself or the stimulation of employment.
For Europe is and will remain the most potent guarantee we have against xenophobia and demagogy, or even against a relapse into barbarism.
The framework directive on water policy will become the cornerstone of Community policy in this area.
Perhaps Mr Dupuis will forgive me for using that expression - both he and his interpreter - in the spirit of entente cordiale.
However, we are not surrendering this weapon without placing a time bomb in its place.
This therefore represents a step forward in respect of the legal and supervisory stipulations for financial markets and financial products.
This fine balance must be struck in conjunction with the Commission, and not by the Commission on its own. In most countries where the Commission is active, development aid is also granted by the Member States themselves.
That is a gross exaggeration of what the difficulties were.
Conservation is something that I hear on many occasions and a lot of people pay lip service to it.
If not, we will be fighting a running battle.
. (DE) Mr President, following this vote, I would like to ask the competent Commissioner, Mr Byrne, if, now that he has seen how much support there is in this Chamber, he is prepared to adopt the proposed amendments?
I therefore appeal to the President of this House and the President of the Commission for them to stand surety for immediate compensation from the U.S. authorities, and this is in order to uphold the rights of the victims' families.
From this point of view, the other decision taken at Helsinki, namely to grant Turkey candidate status, gives the Fifteen new responsibilities as well as new possibilities and its dialogue with Ankara can and, in my view, should, include a determination to ensure that Turkey demonstrates a constructive attitude towards dialogue between the two Cypriot communities which respects international law and which will ultimately lead to a united Cyprus and peace in the eastern Mediterranean.
The Commission proposal, ratified by the Council, is for EUR 613 million, whilst the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection considers that the budget should be EUR 850 million.
(The President declared the common position approved as amended)
Why should this be the case?
It is extremely important.
Prior to this discussion, a letter was sent out by supporters of the old monopolies.
That is where the potential is.
Subject: Partnership arrangements and the third community support framework for Greece The recent Regulation (EC) 1260/1999 laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds places greater emphasis than the previous regulation on stronger partnership, involving the regional and local authorities and other public bodies, the economic and social partners and all other relevant bodies not only in the preparation but also in the funding, monitoring and assessment of the measures taken.
Quite the reverse, in fact.
This needs to be acknowledged as a tool and resource in addition to the EU criteria.
The many fishing days lost affect the entire industry and, above all, the future of fishery products, an area in which prices had seen something of a turnaround in very recent years, now hangs entirely on consumer reaction and we are starting to see signs, unfortunately, of initial disenchantment.
We would like to know whether the Commission would be likely to finance this type of project in terms of the installation of this research site rather than directly in the specific 'nuclear research' context.
It is therefore only reasonable to put these subjects on the agenda.
We might have been able to agree to the original text insofar as it was informed by a legitimate concern to update current legislation.
However, I still have some contacts in Kosovo who have informed me that food packages which are distributed by ECHO, among others, are often of inferior quality.
And therefore we must take the utmost care to prevent the recurrence of a similar situation.
I think the consumer can decide for himself and define in advance what he needs.
This is why we think that the applicable legislation must be reviewed, particularly the 1992 protocol which has exempted the shipowners, in this case the oil tanker charterer, from any liability.
This Community initiative succeeds the two forerunner programmes ADAPT and EMPLOYMENT and has a much smaller budget of around EUR 2.8 billion.
This will be taken a step further with a proposal in June for an interinstitutional agreement on a committee on standards in public life.
Instead of all this waffling about the budget granted to this fund, we could take the decision to set this up.
Despite this, he too accepted that the inquisition procedure of the War Crimes Tribunal against NATO after applications by Canadian and other pacifist organisations is an open question.
Is it not rather melodramatic to say that "the world looks up to Europe" ?
In response I shall say the same thing I said to Mrs McNally just now.
Mr President, I voted for this initiative to amend the copyright legislation because I believe it is one of the most important sectors within the remit of the European Parliament.
The precise wording of texts provides a guarantee and legal certainty for those people who will have to apply or live by these texts on a daily basis.
It is as if the whole world is looking on, helplessly.
Why have the staircases not been improved since my accident?
I do not believe so.
Mr President, I extend our deepest sympathy to all of those who were affected by the storms.
Although the Steel Aid Code is expressed in a very clear way, the Commission has, on a number of occasions, authorised aid for the steel industry even though such aid did not fall within the categories set out in the code.
Mr President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, I believe the approach of EU Member States at Geneva should be to prioritise the situations in Kosovo, Mexico, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone and China.
However, it seems to be doing it without observing the relevant Community legislation, for it is certainly not giving reasonable notice to employees or heeding the obligation to render an account of their use of Italian and European public finances.
The Union, like everyone else, has not yet understood how to present the EU to the citizens of the EU as a means of protection against the negative effects of globalisation.
The sudden reduction of these limits poses a threat to the balance between the obligation to provide a public service and economic viability for postal services.
Nevertheless, it is still regrettable that the European Union, one of the most important financial donors, is still unable to play a major political role in the peace process.
From the point of view of the Commission, in this interinstitutional game, I believe that this is important and I am very happy to highlight it.
They also call for a general debate on the future of the cohesion policy after 2006, but that is another subject.
There is a substitute, which is used to vaccinate chickens.
On one hand judicial measures fall outside the Community dimension yet on the other we have the free movement of people from which criminals are also benefiting.
It is easy to see that the car industry in certain countries, for example in Germany, went in for some pretty tough lobbying before the present directive was adopted.
Discharges from chemical factories in my own constituency in the north-west of England will end up on the beaches of mainland Europe.
In addition, we as a European Parliament are going to have to take action in relation to Economic and Monetary Union, for there is a lack of supervision in this area.
Sort out the tangle of staff allowances.
It stated that on the occasion of the report it must draw up in accordance with Article 7 of the European Parliament and Council decision, it would carry out an assessment of the results of the programme, and this assessment will also cover the financial resources in the context of the Community financial perspectives.
Are you aware of this?
The European Union should proclaim one general principle, to wit, that the social rights acquired in Member States may not be restricted.
The use of mechanical means led to a further legal challenge - that is what I referred to also in my first answer - based on the argument that mechanical removal would damage the underlying mudflats and would cause the ecologically-harmful spread of cord grass in the estuary.
They have healthy economies, high-level economic relations, and in the final analysis they constitute a testing ground for the European Union' s political will.
However, Israel is not the only country concerned with security.
The competent services have not included them in the agenda on the grounds that they had been answered in a previous part-session.
Taking these aspects into account, I consider it appropriate that we create a framework of this kind, as proposed, and I also consider it necessary to the further development of OLAF.
It is no good spending time on hobbies when there is a day' s work to be done.
But here I would like to call on my experience as a lawyer.
No, according to the Christian Democrats in Amendment No. 38: car manufacturers and car drivers should split the cost 50/50.
It is just as important for no-one to be able to or have to refuse the European Parliament or its committees any documentation.
We have all the instruments, we have all the instruments that we require but we have to pull them together much more effectively than we have in the past and that is the challenge which the High Representative and I face in the next four or five years.
It is therefore out of the question that the European Parliament should be given any formal influence over the negotiation process or over ratification.
We shall therefore get straight back to work on this White Paper, although in order to finish it, we shall have to wait for the results of the Intergovernmental Conference, and it will therefore not be ready until spring 2001.
This document leaves out issues which clearly should have been included.
Mr President, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs has proposed an essentially positive text, which I shall vote for, even if I personally had proposed a lot of amendments to broaden it.
Denying that such shifts take place is tantamount to surrendering social protection.
I would ask for that to be checked again.
Swoboda report (A5-0031/2000)
Equally it reflects our experiences of recent food alerts in such areas as dioxin and sludge, as well as the BSE crisis.
This comment certainly seems to me to reflect the current situation, and I accordingly wish to stress that it is vital to rethink north-south relations and break the mould.
We have to remember that we share responsibility in that region with the international community.
Furthermore, the submission of a proposal is a legal obligation.
This Chamber, and the European institutions, were build to uphold values, morality and a certain spirit.
We had to freeze our resolution on the death penalty or risk the passing of a resolution that would have incorporated wholly unacceptable arguments that asserted that human rights are not universally applicable and valid.
Native Americans in the US - Dineh
We know that the Union has entered a new era as regards its foreign policy, and we know that, with the creation of the High Representative, of the Rapid Reaction Force and of the military crisis management capacity, there is a whole trend towards confirming the status of the European Union that we should not underestimate when we consider the role of development policies. We also know that there are issues associated with political dialogue, with the adoption of common positions or joint actions, with the preparation of joint strategies, with preventive diplomacy, and with the development of regional capacity for crisis prevention and management.
The Scottish salmon-farming industry is the biggest in the EU, spread throughout some of Europe' s most peripheral communities.
It is therefore sad that, in committee, the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats and the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party should have voted down the proposals which take the fight against unemployment seriously.
The obvious point of departure for legislation should be that polluters or consumers pay, although exemptions would be permitted in extreme cases.
The EU has always called for a constructive attitude to be adopted towards Cuba, as outlined in the EU' s common position, but it has to be recognised that the discussions will be complex.
This also means that, in any case, I have a great deal of respect for the briefing note which she sent on 10 January but also for the action points which she announced today.
By shifting the criteria from the regions to the Member States, we can avoid a great deal of problems later on.
How do you intend to make our people understand that, today like always, immigration is a source of social and cultural wealth with a role which is, and will remain, essential in the context of population?
That will most certainly be the character of the change as honourable Members will see when they read the reform strategy document.
We have all heard some of the tales emanating from the Council of Ministers building in Brussels.
I would suggest that there is a solution.
I do not think that our reconstruction agency or the task force before it, which have been working incredibly hard in Kosovo, would regard it as an adequate description of their labours to suggest that they had been standing idly by.
Regions which, culturally and economically, sometimes match the interest of some Member States.
Firstly, fiscal provisions of an indirect nature and recently, thanks to Commissioner Monti, there have been direct provisions, the code of good conduct in particular.
It is obvious that mainly local and regional - and, therefore, to a lesser extent national - authorities are best placed to assess the situation and draft appropriate policy.
(The President cut the speaker off)
Accordingly, the Commission will use this initiative to develop what it considers to be new ways of fighting discrimination and inequality of all kinds in the labour market, based on the four pillars of the employment policy guidelines.
I do not accept those views and reject them with some degree of passion.
The subject in question is of great political and social importance.
We have made our views very clear to them.
In addition, there is a special provision of up to EUR 50 million for Greece.
All the Spanish democrats wounded by what is happening in their country have our full and complete support.
That is what the public has the right to expect and it is what the people who work for the Commission want to provide and will provide.
Finland' s experience, however, is that integration, rather than isolation, is the better way of combating antidemocratic forces.
The vote will be taken at noon on Thursday.
We hope that the Commission will want to look into this and acknowledge Parliament' s position in practical terms, and not just with a formal tribute.
Finally, let me repeat, we shall have a very great effort to make in order to popularise the topics of these negotiations.
How many people here know that this currency is being counterfeited and that we have a quite unacceptable state of affairs?
This report confirms that whereas an average level of development is given a rating of 100, the ten so-called "strongest" regions reached an average of 158, and the ten so-called "weakest" regions reached a figure of around 50.
On the same day, I understand, Mr Balfe gave permission for the assistants to go ahead.
This PPE/DE-PSE resolution commends the initiative taken by fourteen Member States to apply pressure to Austria by organising a sort of diplomatic boycott.
What does the Commission intend to do regarding this issue?
And I also thank the representatives of the European Commission, who stood by with advice and expert help at all times.
As Members of Parliament, we must pay particular attention to the fact that the work begun to establish fundamental rights is more important than ever.
Do you think I am going over the top?
However, please learn from the events of Seattle: we have to be able to combine the freedom in world trade, on the one hand, with all those values of human importance that we wish to defend, on the other.
To summarise, the Commission is able to approve 72 amendments, either in their entirety, partially or in principle.
Turning now to some of the individual questions raised here today, I can also confirm that we wish to have the widest possible partnership and participation in LEADER+.
This stability is required in the relations with Yugoslavia, Kosovo, Albania and Bulgaria.
I would like to remind you, however, that there is a special axis for the employment strategy which relates to women and that a special programme is being prepared, the fifth programme for equality between men and women.
We are well aware that they cannot be completed within these six months and that it will have to hand over to the French Presidency, in the hope that a conclusion can be reached before the end of the year 2000.
I hope we have other opportunities, but I hope we will have fewer examples of their abuse in the years ahead.
In the end, it is only by having these three things in place that we will be able to achieve acceptance amongst the citizens.
In this regard, we are certainly on the right track, but as some Members have already stressed, the real issue here is the possibility that manufacturers' responsibility will become a shared responsibility.
It is therefore important that the manufacturer' s liability should be clear. This should not in any way be jeopardised.
No one knows what kind of authority this parliament is going to have vis-à-vis UNMIK.
These problems can only be solved by close cooperation between all the authorities in order to achieve social integration and respect for all working there. This therefore requires a determined fight against illegal immigration and profound respect for the rights of immigrant workers who are legally working in El Ejido and throughout Europe.
There have already been hundreds of deaths.
Will you write to me before the next plenary with that information?
The solutions we opt for must be consistent with the fundamental rationale of the European Union, which is a union of states and peoples.
Is that the message we want to send out?
The Stability Pact is a given in Europe.
Therefore, Madam President, I would ask you to request that the Commission express its opinion on this issue and that we then proceed to the vote.
Having said this, we must accept that elections are always taking place in the countries of the European Union.
I would like to quote verbatim from the report: "State aid per capita is highest in Italy, Germany and Ireland. Ireland clearly is in the lead when national and Community regional and social funds are put together."
It is absolutely crucial that we tackle the coherence issue in a realistic and pragmatic way, which means holding the debate in the appropriate institutional framework, that is, the Council and Parliament.
Once again, the point of discussion in the liberalisation of the postal services will no doubt be a reduction in the workforce.
Mr President, High Representative, Commissioner, with regard to the war in Chechnya, we have all noted the particularly restrained and almost accommodating reaction of the international community in general and of the European Union in particular.
This cannot be ignored or evaded, certainly not on account of soft law, as was once suggested at a meeting of our Committee.
This is a reductionist directive. We cannot lump countries with navigable rivers together with countries which lack water, where great cracks open up in the ground through a lack of water and which see temperatures of 55ºC or 60ºC in the sun.
But it has to be admitted that much of what he said is the progress in institutional matters, and the real test of the European defence identity will be in its ability to produce capability and capacity, rather than nicely formulated institutions.
I urge the Council of Ministers and the European Commission to do the same.
Mr President, the subsidiarity principle is one of the fundamental principles underlying cooperation in the European Union.
The international community is sending conflicting messages to this country.
What I want to emphasise by saying this is that it is a matter of both sides' surrendering power.
We must also demand that the parties truly responsible be made to pay the costs incurred due to the pollution.
This lesson in wisdom is 100% ideology and 0% knowledge.
That surely is in everyone' s interests.
Some have different sectors and, in view of the volume of data to be sent, could be prejudiced compared with those which have a smaller volume of data, if the same deadlines are set.
Mr President, the Santer Commission came to grief because financial control failed all down the line.
This framework decision does without any doubt represent some progress.
But we need there to be more transparency in the competition policy.
But it does, at least, make it possible to anticipate some rather interesting options for development of the European Union.
I shall believe your talk about human rights in China when you name the real cause of the problem, i.e. Communism.
He must also know whether his bag of protein granules includes GMOs as these components could represent a risk to public health.
The first one is that people feel - for reasons I well understand - that in that transition there is a danger either of irresponsibility or of inertia.
We do not intend to go in the direction of what is termed in French un procès d'intention.
He said we must not always be carried along by lawyers.
They are very static in their military forces, and unsuitable for this sort of warfare.
In this economy, the connection between different policy areas is that much more marked.
Only when all European institutions are reformed will we have the open, democratic and decisive Europe which our citizens now finally deserve.
I am referring here especially to the earlier scandals involving ECHO.
This new phase, or rather policy, identifies the prospect of integrating the region into Europe as the only option for settling its conflicts peacefully.
It must be further examined whether and how scientific research in other parts of the Community must be organised.
Mr President, when it comes to putting its own house in order, the European Commission is in a Catch-22 situation.
We often adopt resolutions on peace processes in other parts of the world, as was recently the case with Indonesia, when we protested at the top of our voices only to discover subsequently that some European countries had been supplying them with arms and military equipment.
It is already included now: "indication of the particular characteristics due to the manufacturing products".
Lastly, the system we currently have - as the Committee of Independent Experts asserted very strongly - is now unsustainable.
Furthermore, it is not a fair directive because it ignores the large uninhabited areas, climatic diversity, desert areas and arid areas.
I also intend to contribute to the process of clarifying the role of action plans as part of the work of the High Level Group on Asylum and Migration, and to make progress in adapting Community agreements in the field of readmission by including standard clauses.
I am in favour of social protection, I am in favour of the original Commission document, but I do not want to see people priced out of jobs because social protection costs become unrealistically high.
At the same time, the internal audit function is carried out in an uncoordinated way by several bodies, notably the same Financial Controller, the Inspectorate General and by some units operating Directorates-General."
All of this needs to happen, and quickly too.
However, in terms of foreign policy, I am not sure whether we can advance at the rate needed to meet requirements, as some Members have said this afternoon, without ignoring the problems which you are coming up against.
Mr President, I want to thank Commissioner Patten for his detailed account.
I consider that what we should adopt is the form of certification that Mrs Roth-Behrendt speaks about, the identification in the form of green marks on tankers which certain harbours in Europe have brought up for discussion.
Twenty one years after Amoco Cadiz, this umpteenth oil slick, the seventh since 1967, shows the irresponsibility of our successive rulers.
I believe you heard the concerns which some members of the American Congress expressed last week here in Parliament.
These NGOs will address the most urgent need which is to move people in danger to more secure areas as well as providing health care, water and sanitation.
I urge the administration to see to it that this does not happen in future.
I must declare an interest as a lawyer but also as a former competition minister in the United Kingdom.
Does the Commission support the Council?
Even the area designated by the Commissioners as a special protection area has been destroyed.
Our citizens expect us in this regard to protect their interests.
Question No 37 by (H-0029/00):
We have of course discussed at length whether Parliament and whether the EU should have powers in regard to patents under intellectual property law.
However, these Council proceedings must be carefully prepared.
The Joint Assembly should play a leading role in monitoring the enactment of good governance, human rights and democracy in cooperation with the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, who have managed to produce excellent reports in just a short time.
I have already talked about the economy: we well know which basic ingredients will set Europe on the path towards a lasting recovery which will in turn create more jobs.
When the Commission' s first draft report soon becomes the official report on 1 March, I very much hope that our input here will help ensure that we will actually witness this change.
We all have, as it were, our histories to live with, but it is important that business has legal certainty.
Numerous policies have already gone in this direction, albeit laboriously, and many more still need to do so before Europe, in terms of subsidiarity, is seen as one house, not only by its own people, but also by those in the candidate countries.
Wild salmon, trout and eels have been found to carry the virus which now seems to be endemic even in the wider marine environment.
Mr President, at the Second International Conference of Socialist Women held in Copenhagen in 1910, it was decided that the main demand of the time, that of a woman' s right to vote, should be linked to the women' s question as a whole and that (as also stated in the relevant resolution) Women' s Day must be accorded an international dimension and be thoroughly prepared for.
VOTE
They must be introduced to guarantee the protection of investors.
Liberalisation of postal services would mean that the state could give each pensioner an extra ITL 10 million a year so that a million pensioners would see their pensions doubled.
Need I remind you that the European Parliament itself took the initiative on 1 February? I must again thank Mr Napolitano for organising an initial working meeting with the representatives of the national parliaments who are, of course, the representatives of the people in each Member State.
Parliament had four main criticisms of the comitology system as it existed prior to the new Council decision supplemented by this interinstitutional agreement.
Now we are being asked to provide the legal base for such interception, and it is the combination of these two documents that should be looked at.
How are priorities supposed to be set here?
Nevertheless, we are pleased that this programme has turned out in the way that we wanted it to.
The Christian Democratic parties in my country have made up their minds a long time ago and they stick to their decision to listen to the protests of extreme-right voters but never to negotiate with extreme-right leaders.
It is best to wait for that debate which, I understand, will take place fairly soon.
Unfortunately, his text has not survived the vote.
New types of funds have been introduced in the various Member States which are not permitted to market their units in other Member States.
The role of Parliament is to meet the issue of human rights head on, particularly at the level of prevention.
To comply with the demands in Amendments Nos 27 and 29, to the effect that the Commission should approve every extension, would be going too far, and these cannot be approved.
This cannot be done, and it also, in any case, goes against nature.
What is more, the relevant cost dynamic is completely under control.
Who pays for the collection, the dismantling, the disposal and so on?
I would like to say that I strongly disagree with Mrs Villiers' view that this is such an interesting debate.
Take the trade agreements.
I would like to thank the Minister and the Commissioner for their speeches and for committing themselves before the European Parliament on the crucial matter we are discussing today.
However, the arguments of the plastics and car industries would be more persuasive if a commitment were to be given to reducing CO2 levels in Europe in other sectors besides these.
I would simply point out that the Commission proposal makes no reference to health or consumer protection.
For it is their very means of defence which are being eliminated one by one.
We are all entitled to clean drinking water.
One last word regarding the programme. I think it very important for renewable energies to be firmly established in the regions so that they can develop in the long term and so that they can contribute to the economy and to job creation there.
The second principle is based on the fact that nowadays many of the job opportunities in rural areas are outside the traditional agricultural sector, so that a complete development programme which integrates rural development policies with agricultural sector policies needs to be implemented. In this way rural development is becoming a pillar of the CAP.
It is true that implementation of the Budget for 1997 fell within the old Commission' s remit. The new Commission has, on the other hand, undertaken to carry out a cleaning up exercise following former scandals, and I must admit that I am not impressed at all.
Only if the population can stay in the countryside will the quality of life in the countryside also be permanently assured.
Therefore, any modernisation process has to take account of economic, employment and social protection differences between the various countries, whether Member States or candidate countries.
The role of the Court of Justice is still too limited and communitisation is incomplete.
However, because of the Council' s refusal to negotiate a review of the ceiling set for heading 7 (pre-accession) in the Financial Perspectives, the European Parliament agreed, by way of exception, and I stress that it was by way of exception, that this expenditure should be financed under heading 4 (external action) of the Financial Perspectives for the year 2000.
- (EL) The Freedom Party' s participation in the Austrian Government is a dangerous development for the European Union' s political future.
There is, as yet, no European Court case law on Efterløn, but it could validly be argued that the residence requirement is incompatible with general clauses now in force banning discrimination on the grounds of nationality.
Cuba' s wish to join is welcome and Cuba will be welcome in our circle.
You have told us, in this regard, that three committees are being set up, a political committee and a security committee, which started up today, and a military committee.
But I must record that other groups, led by the PSE Group, guided by my countryman, Stephen Hughes, voted this out.
The next item is the joint debate on the Commission statements on its strategic objectives for the coming five years and the annual legislative programme for 2000.
Mr Berend, you also mentioned, as did Mr Aparicio Sánchez, the lack of reform in the fisheries sector.
And do you know why?
This is going to lead us to make 'Culture 2000' the programme of the citizen.
I would also like to say that competition policy will play a valuable social, as well as economic, role in the European integration process, as it has done in the past.
The Portuguese Presidency must put an end to this type of barbaric behaviour.
This is wrong!
Finally, we have to put our trust in, and support, the institutions which are closest to the citizens, that is, the local councils and bodies.
At the end of last year Mr Kinnock announced new measures for the protection of whistle-blowers.
We have come a remarkably long way in a remarkably short time, but there is still a very considerable distance to travel and over the next few months and years we are going to find ourselves, for example, facing up to difficult questions about resources.
However, it is also extremely important to me to point something out that many people actually take for granted.
We have also offered very substantial support to Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and Egypt.
I can also specifically assure the House that we are not going for what is sometimes called "a big bang approach".
Finally, the Commission welcomes the resolution which continues the line of the high-level group, the Commission communication on enhancing tourism' s potential for employment and the corresponding Council conclusions.
More time will pass before the Convention actually enters into force, given the fact that this requires Member States' ratification.
We obviously have difficulties there with regard to the legal basis.
The Council must realise that, if we want the future of the European Union to involve a form of enlargement built on firm foundations, the next Intergovernmental Conference must go much further.
I am, however, optimistic.
The tax has the support of 47% of the people in the UK, according to a recent survey by War on Want.
However, this report is based on long and effective work which has already produced certain results, such as the incorporation into the Finnish Presidency' s document of 7 December 1999 of the commitment to widen the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference to include a study of the future modification of the organisation, composition and competences of the Community Courts.
Our concern does not centre purely on the budgetary issue, however.
This would in fact demand a change to the recently adopted Amsterdam Treaty.
Mr President, I would like to request a correction to the Minutes regarding the vote on Amendment No 5 of the Swoboda report.
Many speakers have underlined this.
So without a more active role for the Development Council in the overall coordination of political decision making which, although it directly impacts on the European Union' s development policy, is largely being dealt with outside this decision-making forum, it will certainly be difficult to establish a more coherent European Union policy on development objectives.
This being the case, there are considerable disparities between states, which may be measured in various ways, such as, for example, as a percentage of added value and per wage earner.
Mr Désir, I note your comment and the existence of this joint motion for a resolution.
This House has only prepared one report on this Convention. It was in fact consulted on a text which was not the text being worked on by the Council and which did not contain points which had already been agreed.
Finally, Mr President, as I must be brief given the time constraints, I must congratulate our rapporteur, Mrs Attwooll, on the important work which she has carried out within our committee.
Is it the case that there is low inflation and that there are low interest rates?
This, to my mind, is also something that we should call upon the Intergovernmental Conference to do, i.e. establish the EDF firmly in the budget of the European Union.
In relation to grants and subsidies: yes, consideration has been given to that issue.
But you must understand that we cannot let you get away with this.
A simple reading of chapter 4, article 1 of the Austrian Freedom Party' s manifesto is enough to make any democratic conscience shudder.
I believe that the work done by the previous presidency in defining the financial outlook was excellent, regardless of who was involved in that work.
There must be no more manufacture or use of cyanide.
One area that I want to focus on, in addition to those already identified, is that of cultural diversity in Europe.
Regarding a second matter, now, relating to the additional criteria, which should be taken into consideration in selecting disadvantaged areas. Here, too, I am willing to demonstrate greater flexibility and to consider other relevant criteria in addition to the Community criteria given in point 11 of the guidance project.
(SV) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen (all the more welcome for being so few in number), one might have thought that it was an unimportant subject which was to be discussed at this hour, but that is not the case.
I urge that car manufacturers should most definitely not be given the task of organising the dismantling and recycling of vehicles, as they would gain an excessive hold over the second-hand components market.
With this text we are undoubtedly forcing the issue, since we believe that there are points that must be resolved and it is important for Community fraud to be curbed, to be crushed.
I wonder on what point of order Mr Davies was speaking.
This will facilitate greater control and traceability of such additives and guarantee the consumer' s freedom of choice.
They get het up about wars and genocide on other continents, but wrongly keep quiet about the genocide taking place in their own country.
For the European Parliament, the first step in the struggle for more transparency in this jungle of committees was to be informed, at least, of all that the European Commission intended to regulate in the context of these various committees.
There is more to be said on that score.
The adoption procedure for the programmes is established by the general regulations on Structural Funds.
As far as tourism is concerned, there will be many people in these fourteen Member States who could consider discouraging parents of young children from taking holidays in Belgium, for example.
Report (A5-0087/1999) by Mr Jonckheer, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the seventh survey on state aid in the European Union in the manufacturing and certain other sectors (COM(1999)148 - C5-0107/1999 - 1999/2110(COS))
There are fundamental advantages for the whole of Europe for it to promote cooperation with the applicant countries and to support border regions.
Question No 54 by (H-0117/00):
Obstacles too often caused by double taxation and social protection are preventing, braking or hindering cross-border mobility.
Control of the arms trade and improved media control are essential in this.
The core aspects of this debate this evening relate to the operation of the EU initiative programmes, namely, the new INTERREG III initiative, EQUAL and the LEADER+ scheme.
If the establishment of such an area, in which the Union can also intervene in the basic rights of the citizens, is only decided by diplomats and bureaucrats, while the elected representatives of Europe are reduced to following developments like a rabbit watching a snake, then this area will not gain the acceptance of the citizens.
Even though many developments cast doubt on this, we did believe, in spite of everything, that this was the case and, more recently, reference was made, albeit half-heartedly, to the principle of subsidiarity.
Madam President, I would like to say that the agreement reached in September distinguished this debate from the annual presentation of the Commission' s legislative programme.
Everyone now knows of the scandal of the export refund scheme which dumped 54 000 tonnes of excess subsidised beef on West African markets, slashing prices for local cattle farmers by half.
This contribution covers various projects in the fields of health and health systems and of water purification.
The first is the issue of the media' s influence.
Moreover, given that this opinion is quite important, we can still vote for it, and indeed, the majority of our group will be voting for it.
It is especially important in the case of large international companies where decisions are taken far from the employee.
The date when the Commission is supposed to present its communication devoted to this key issue is put off time and again. It is now scheduled for July.
This legal framework is fleshed out in the priorities set by the accession partnerships that were adopted by the Commission and the Council last year and are now being implemented in the corresponding programmes and project management.
All decisions which are or are not taken and all agreements which are or are not negotiated by the Community institutions with regard to the economy of the principal sectors in disadvantaged areas like Andalusia may indirectly lead to these serious incidents. I am referring, for example, to the lack of agreement with Morocco and to the lack of solutions for the fishing industry, part of whose fleet is moored in Almería.
I can also assure Parliament that I will ensure that the pertinent provisions of Directive 90/220 are included in the proposal for a recasting of Directive 70/524 that the Commission has proposed in the White Paper on food safety to present to Parliament before July 2001.
The next item is the declarations by the Council and the Commission on women in the decision-making process.
I know that the Convention itself will do much in this area but it does not have the resources that the Commission has.
Without these prospects that we have outlined, Europe would, once again, have no future.
It will, at best, lead to more bureaucracy and less room for local democracy and for people to get involved in choosing and developing projects.
For instance, religious schools could quite properly say to a Roman Catholic for example: we do not want to employ you because you are a gay man or because you are a lesbian.
That time is now past.
The EU' s Ministers for the Environment must therefore stand by their affiliation to the OSPAR Convention, which now already defines what is hazardous to the environment.
Whatever Jörg Haider' s verbal excesses, which we of course deplore, the Austrians have made a democratic choice, and we must respect this.
I remain at your service in order, when the time comes, to present the report of previous planning which you request, but also to keep you informed regularly as to the implementation of these initiatives in the course of the new planning.
We have always been of the opinion that these criteria should be stringently met.
Mr President, I would like to start with the fact that if words could solve the problems we could all pack up and go home.
The opinion on the copyright directive at first reading was very distorted, and, furthermore, the balance is moving in a harmful direction from the point of view of Europeans.
The directive should not treat over-the-counter derivatives differently from standard derivatives because they are used in many Member States and were also used before.
My specific question concerns the problem of homelessness and whether a new presidency could take a new initiative to try to overcome some of the difficulties the President-in-Office alluded to with regard to support at intergovernmental level.
It is not enough simply to carry out spot checks once the money has been spent.
We agree with its substance, its tone and its scope.
It is clear that this needs to be developed at all levels and it needs to recognise the needs of each level within the Commission.
From that standpoint, Aphrodite' s island, as Cyprus is known, and the pirates' island, as we islanders say of Malta with great affection, are two jewels which should be welcomed into the European Union without delay.
I would be grateful if you would not interrupt other Members.
This approach will lead us to a fully WTO compatible regime.
I want to thank Mr Cox and indeed his group for the way in which several Members have strongly engaged themselves and interested themselves in the detail of reform which can sometimes be rather trying but is always, as he indicated, worthwhile.
I very much fear that we are to have yet another authority that flies through Europe anonymously like a satellite; an authority of this kind would be anathema to me and I hope it does not come to that.
The fact that the convention has not been turned into a framework agreement also constitutes a defeat for this Parliament.
This is the affirmation of a European cultural policy. In this connection, I expect our three institutions, Parliament, the Commission and the Council, to be in agreement.
The Dutch Members of the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities will, however, despite hesitation, not withhold their support for the Di Pietro report in the final vote.
Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance believes that the European Parliament' s decision to rush headlong into giving its opinion on the Intergovernmental Conference undermines the political significance of the request for talks with the Council, and in the end, makes it rather irrelevant.
The document has been drawn up taking full account of the provisions contained in the draft prepared by the European Ombudsman's office.
There were a total of 27 cases in 1998 and the Commission submitted its own report on these.
Mr President, Commissioner, water is a precious natural asset, a vital necessity, and it is our duty to protect it.
The reason is that this concerns the approximation of a legal effect measure, as proposed by the Commission.
I would like to point out, however, that this starting point indicates to us the challenges which face us: maintaining a population in rural areas, given the changes taking place in all types of economic activity owing to agriculture' s increasing lack of importance amongst the various sources of income for rural society.
The trade in emissions rights is immoral to my mind and rather than solving the problem, it shelves it.
Mr Kindermann and Mrs Auroi made reference to this.
So I think we should consider simply abolishing these meetings once and for all.
Quite probably, our points of view and our positions will not always be the same. There will probably be differences of opinion, that would be only normal.
Mr President, I will begin by thanking the Portuguese Presidency and the Commission for all our recent very useful contacts.
I would like, first of all, to thank the rapporteur for his exceptionally accurate and technical work on the report and, secondly, the Commission for the proposal it has submitted.
There is effective legal precaution.
As for the rest, if you have any recommendations or suggestions on the involvement of a particular structure - I think you spoke of a cooperative structure - I am ready and willing, on the basis of suggestions from MEPs - you will be acting within your role and I within mine - to relay these suggestions, provided that they respect the spirit and letter of the Structural Funds Regulation.
In addition, assent leads to more widespread international recognition of the European Union' s role in terms of copyright.
We know there are 13 applicant countries, from Lithuania to Turkey, and just one black hole in Europe, the Balkans, but because these countries are denied the opportunity to become applicants, we want to make them believe that this agreement is a miracle.
For no one is very keen to spend money on culture.
Flags of convenience must also be specifically monitored and regulated in maritime transport, particularly as they do so much damage to the fisheries which we have taken to calling 'responsible fisheries' .
An important element of LIFE-Nature, which mainly concerns the realisation of the Natura 2000 network, is the introduction of a multinational approach to formulating plans for international projects and activities, so as to avoid the fragmentation of biotopes and to offer better protection of biodiversity.
A war of aggression, slavishly carrying out American military policy, in a sphere that was not that of the North Atlantic Treaty, against a state that had never been a member, that was not threatening any international borders and in violation of the rules of international law that establish the principle of non-interference as well as those governing the declaration of war.
Following the conciliation stage, our institutions can now formally adopt the new 'Culture 2000' framework programme.
This scoreboard will not just be a mere instrument of legislative planning. It will also, and above all, be an instrument for increasing transparency and increasing the accountability of all the European Union' s institutions towards the public.
In November 1999 the Commission approved at first reading a code of good administrative behaviour to be incorporated into its Rules of Procedure.
In this context, the criteria by which these rights are to be chosen must be clearly indicated.
Have you stopped to ask what would happen if the wish of a certain fellow MEP was to be fulfilled and elections were to be held in Austria in the course of the next few days?
To what extent are we going to get some form of convergence on defence expenditure, because some Member States spend considerably more than others.
For the sake of our credibility, we will have to speak with one voice when it comes to human rights and not act as if human rights within the EU are different from human rights elsewhere in the world.
My reply to this is that, firstly, countries should honour their pledges, namely make 0.7% of their Gross National Product available for development aid and cooperation, so that a great deal more money becomes available than at present for such long-term projects and via a route established for the purpose, namely contributions to development cooperation, and not via an artificial and probably harmful route, namely the Tobin tax.
Honourable Member, I should just like to stress that both Denmark and numerous other Member States are having problems interpreting the directives and transposing them into national law.
Effective competition pushes prices down and raises standards of living.
(Sustained applause)
Mr Gollnisch, excuse me, you have one minute.
Of course, she is entirely correct in saying that the Union' s credibility is on the line with what happens, not just in Kosovo but in the Balkans as a whole.
Fifthly and finally, the aggregate to which government debt will relate will be gross domestic product at current market prices, estimated in accordance with the 1995 European System of Accounts' definitions.
These financial perspectives are adjusted to within a millimetre.
Our position on LEADER is a product of our more general assessment of the EU' s overall agricultural policy.
And that is not a contribution to any recent political controversy.
It cannot be copied arbitrarily since each Member State has its own specific conditions.
In fact, the Commission has argued for some time now that the rules we have established are not sufficient to deal with the challenges of today.
The European Parliament and its Committee on Constitutional Affairs ought instead to have been more specific and concentrated on just a few points in addition to the Council decision in Helsinki, so stating what it considered to be the most pressing matters for discussion, including the question of establishing a public prosecutor to deal with crimes against the institutions of the European Union and their financial interests.
We have just approved the water directive here in Parliament.
We would like to link the granting of all aid to the availability of the amounts due from the other donors.
The following objectives were set: improving the development potential of rural areas by calling upon local initiative; promoting the acquisition of knowledge in the rural development sector; disseminating this knowledge to other rural areas.
If the system of delivering cars to treatment facilities without any cost is applied, it will also transpire that the cost of processing will come down considerably.
In the meantime, it is nature that is taking the rap, as always.
The report states that in Greece and Italy targets for improving ?employability? have not yet been reached and it is doubtful whether the policies to be implemented will enable the guidelines on preventing and dealing with long-term unemployment to be complied with.
The regulation proposed by the Commission conceals the danger of creating a marketing monopoly for certain additives.
I refer principally to the Palestine-Israel question, but the same also applies to the territories which have been occupied in the Golan since 1967 and in southern Lebanon since 1982.
As far as this is concerned, a number of people have already referred to the fact that the Commission intends to drastically improve and consolidate its follow-up checks and that these checks should be carried out on a completely independent basis, with no sweeping of matters under the carpet in future.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, I would like to present to you certain information about the re-opening of the intra-Cyprus negotiations and recent developments in this area.
In view of the seriousness of such situations, we can congratulate ourselves on the fact that the authorities have at least reacted and undertaken to examine the legislative provisions already existing in this field.
We should therefore do what is necessary to update the areas in which we can intervene, with renewed strength, to safeguard human rights.
My third point has also been mentioned already.
Mr President, the report presented by the Commission on the Union Economy in 1999 appears to us to be mostly utter waffle as it scarcely shows why our performance remains hopelessly below the potential that the immense human resources of Europe should allow.
Implementing high environmental standards will not only allow important industrial and technological sectors to develop, it will also have social and economic benefits and, at the same time, public health standards will improve.
This is something to which we all want to contribute.
We need soldiers who do not have a doctrine to put into practice.
We refocus development policies on poverty reduction strategies.
It is makeshift and contains heteronomous paragraphs, which is no way to set a shining example.
By now, my colleagues in the Fisheries Committee and indeed in the Parliament will be well aware of our commitment to technical conservation measures which are based on sound technical advice.
Finally, a compassionate thought for all the volunteers, nature lovers and bird lovers, who spontaneously and generously are coming through to the aid of the oil-covered birds, organising rescue operation with the means available.
A third problem has been raised by Mrs Dührkop with regard to the multiannual programmes.
This was a joint letter between our two predecessors and I consider, as the successor to Mrs Wulf-Mathies, that this letter is still valid. I will actively endeavour with Mrs Wallström to verify the compatibility of the projects financed by the Structural Funds with the EU environmental directives and policies.
This is a key priority for us to focus on.
In the same way, through the LEADER initiative, structural change in agriculture can be supported by creating new jobs in rural areas.
The first measure would in fact cancel out the effects of the latter.
It has placed a bomb in a supermarket and killed men, women and children.
No decision has been taken in relation to that other than to say that it is more likely that the Authority will be located centrally rather than on the periphery.
Madam President, Commissioner, I should like once again to say a few words on the modus operandi and the ideological tactics behind this oral question.
This is also an important point.
I am not speaking so much for myself, as I happen to be one of those few lucky people in Europe who can drink water directly from their own lake at home.
Firstly, its continuity, which, in principle, I am not questioning.
Are you going to interfere with Great Britain' s Parliament if we are elected?
A compromise has now also been reached on the issue of asylum seekers.
Next, as a matter of urgency, we muss pass legislation, firstly, regarding identification of the exact characteristics of goods transported.
The other question is who should bear the cost.
With regard to eurosceptics and nationalists, I would say that social protection within the boundaries of a Member State is not social and offers no protection.
They have opted for the weak common position in favour of our Parliament' s more drastic positioning.
They have to look at, for example, the concerns of people in relation to a special issue, and they have to judge from what is known about the scientific evidence in a certain case.
As such, I would like to ask these various Commission directorates and these various Commissioners to provide a wider vision regarding corporate governments.
It is easy to despair in the face of the violence and the hatred, but it is important for the sake of Kosovo, the Balkans and Europe that we do not fail.
With regard to the Côte d' Ivoire, I can inform you that the whole of the EUR 28 million has been paid back in accordance with what was agreed following examination of the financial irregularities.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am speaking on behalf of my fellow Member, Robert Goebbels, who is unable to attend due to a political commitment.
I would also like to express my concern - which is very considerable - at the statement by some Ministers at the last Ecofin that says that it should be a priority of the Portuguese Presidency not to alter, in any circumstances, the financial perspectives agreed in Berlin.
With regard to the environmental impact, it is a well-known phenomenon that while stocks have fallen during the last decades several reasons have been advanced to explain these reductions: pollution, over-fishing, changes in climate, etc. It cannot at present be excluded that ISA has an impact on wild stock.
We know that because of the dramatic nature of the situation, representatives of the Portuguese Presidency and Commissioner Nielson left today for Mozambique.
According to the general regulations, however, any technical assistance scheme which can claim a connection with a Community initiative must be proposed under Article 20, and not Article 23.
In its present form, what is being proposed is more like an advisory agency to the Commission rather than an independent body that would have decision- and law-making powers more similar to those of the US Food and Drug Administration, which has already established credibility in this particular field.
It is no less incumbent on the other donor countries to fulfil their obligations within this timeframe, in the interests of the persons affected.
We must primarily ensure that the basic needs of the poorest people in the countries most affected by the AIDS disease are fully met. These countries include Ethiopia, Lesotho, Mozambique, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia.
Transfers are an example of the distribution of wealth, of solidarity between peoples and territories, because unfortunately the Earth is not perfect and some areas have more and some have less.
If they do not properly reflect the positions adopted, then we may correct them, if necessary.
The transfer of water is already covered by controls, but explicitly mentioning it makes the text clearer.
A farce because we know and appreciate the work of Commissioner Vitorino and what we have here on paper is a blatant contradiction to how things actually stand.
As with many other provisions of the Treaty, Articles 81(1) and 82 have, after all, been applied for decades by national authorities and judges, and I do not feel that this has created serious problems.
This obligation is not respected either in France or in many other European countries.
I remember your predecessor' s speech five years ago.
The development partnerships within the thematic fields, which are referred to in Amendment No. 22, would enable even the smaller organisations to play a part in the EQUAL initiative.
Madam President, Mrs Díez González and I had tabled questions on certain opinions of the Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, which appeared in a Spanish newspaper.
I think it would be a nice idea if you could discuss opening this curtain from time to time with the ushers.
The Left' s Members of Parliament therefore supported the Liberal decision' s powerful rejection of any form of xenophobia in Austria or elsewhere.
Some of us here are passionately in favour of creating a distinctly European security organisation to defend peace in the world.
This question cannot be dealt with separately from the current thinking on the hierarchy of norms and the better application of the principle of subsidiarity.
This will be a good test as to whether there is reasonable cooperation between the two institutions.
I should add that today, at a time when Europe is revealing itself and is proving to be incapable of opposing the inclusion of Fascists in a government within the European Union, it is no longer acceptable to have an ultraliberalism which destroys public services foisted on us in the name of this same Europe.
Is it necessary to give further attention to this during the IGC or will the Treaties inevitably set the ball rolling?
Mr President, Commissioner, first and foremost I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur and to Mr Wieland for the efforts they have expended in summing up the various proposed amendments and interests in this report in such a balanced manner.
Madam President, I hope that it is a good omen that there are still a few i's left for me to dot.
This is ultimately cheaper, also for the consumer.
The Council can act in accordance with Parliament' s decisions, or it can continue to miserably begrudge its association with the other institutions in this vitally important project.
These very innovative approaches provide a good opportunity to improve governance.
At this stage, the Commission is keeping to the amount which has been set in the common position.
We hope to hear specific proposals from the Commission, with plenty of action and no more regrets.
Many of you were there on that occasion and I think that it is fair to say that you could have cut the scepticism with a knife among many of the NATO parliamentary delegates when we spoke about Europe' s ambitions in the area of CFSP.
However, responsibility for ensuring that due attention is given to equality lies with departmental and unit managers.
These are the main reasons for my vote.
This process will continue in accordance with the financial spending guidelines laid down by the EU leaders at their Berlin Summit last year, which were supported by Parliament at its last May plenary part-session.
In addition, tourism can promote a certain cultural and economic rapprochement, insofar as it makes us more aware of other European cultures and thus helps respect for European ways of life to develop.
The most important thing will be the harmonisation of the laws of the Member States, but for now let us content ourselves with this small step forward, as it is a step in the right direction.
There are, at the very least, rumours that Serbian militias are up to their old tricks again.
Unfortunately, a number of deadlines have been exceeded.
As far as Amendment No 15 on the definition of the term "self-employed" is concerned, the Commission will, as I have already remarked, provide an adequate solution to accommodate the objections lodged.
I share some of the concerns expressed here, especially by Mr García-Margallo y Marfil, but this face-lift would be even more successful if the funds which simply reproduce a stock exchange index, and which are therefore managed either passively or not at all, and the funds which use an index as a benchmark for an actively-managed fund were treated in the same way, if only to allow medium-sized undertakings listed on the stock exchange but not included in the stock exchange index better access to the capital market.
The Committee of Independent Experts said the Commission was not managing this properly.
All over the world, Europe' s actions must be guided by a deep respect for the principles of freedom and respect for the rights of individuals and minorities.
To summarise, I consider that this proposal constitutes a satisfactory adaptation of the criteria laid down in the 1995 European System of Accounts, and I therefore approve it in full, as did the committee.
Symbolic because it reflects well on the Fifteen' s project to see the birth of a policy which is common to the five countries in the region (Bosnia-Herzegovina, Croatia, Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, FYROM and Albania) and which would make economic and political stability a pressing and urgent requirement.
Food safety and the guarantee of biological diversity must take precedence over commercial interests.
The training then would be automatically performed without being compulsory.
This is a highly controversial issue as it constitutes a potential source of abuse.
I shall not repeat all the various statements he made at his hearing, I think we all still remember them.
We want a fair and open society in Cuba, a Cuba which respects the principles of the market, the sanctity of contract and the rule of law.
The report accepts these attitudes along with the more general policy of the European Union on south-eastern Europe.
In undertaking such a development in our organisation I am certain that we can match or even advance upon the success and increase in job motivation which has come as a consequence of similar developments in several administrations, both in the public sector and in the private sector, in the last decade or so.
What I would very much like you to tell me is how you intend to guarantee that a new authority of this kind, whatever name it goes by, will be given influence over the Council, who in this authority will have the say in matters, and who will issue orders.
But let us stop to consider the circumstances in which this debate is taking place and the conclusions to which it should bring us.
For the first time since the Second World War, a party which is openly pro-Nazi, racist and xenophobic has gained access to power in a European country.
Many other events have taken place in recent weeks which I should like to mention, such as in Kosovo, the Middle East and Chechnya. There are also many other issues which I should like to discuss with you.
We wish to ensure that Article 1 of the directive promotes the sustainable, efficient, fair and considerate use of water.
When we adopt the Minutes for today' s sitting tomorrow, then any Members who think the positions have not been explained clearly enough may ask for amendments.
Yet, all too often these political priorities are invisible in everyday policies.
To date, the Member States have calculated this GDP in accordance with the criteria laid down in ESA 79.
In this way, we will be able to meet a number of huge challenges.
Accordingly, we would like to take this opportunity to urge the Commission and Council Presidency to seize this political initiative, so as to avoid us landing in such a desperate situation again and having to restore our solvency at the end of a month. Rather, we must use this initiative to establish a long-term aid strategy for this country, and I hope that in the process, you will fulfil your political obligations at long last and not allow things to continue as they have been doing for the past few months.
(FR) The Commission' s stated desire to strengthen relations between the European Union and the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and to grant this country the prospect of full integration into the Community would appear to respond to a primary concern: a political entity which respects nations and their sovereignty could no longer postpone sending a signal to these states in south-east Europe which history has shown no consideration for since the end of the Second World War.
The key idea involves making qualified majority voting the general rule while modifying the content of this qualified majority to make it a double simple majority, of States and peoples, in order to increase the Commission' s room for manoeuvre and reduce that of the minority States.
They are political because we are moving on.
Tomorrow, I shall be in London.
I will comment briefly on the 13 amendments tabled.
The Commission' s declared intention to regulate the conditions of competition on the European market is ridiculous, for the only law which competition respects is the law of the jungle where the most powerful squash or devour the weakest elements.
Genetically modified additives must also be clearly identified in feedingstuffs in order to allow the end-consumer to choose food without GMO components or based on GMO components and to guarantee this.
When I see that we are asking for training for women in politics, I want to say - no, definitely not.
That is important, but equality is not only necessary for productivity, but also to make our societies more democratic.
Europe, which is so democratic, so progressive, does not speak out or take these tragic problems on board, while half of Africa is dying of Aids and other diseases.
They have now been replaced by robust Danish, Finnish and Swedish troops.
I welcome the proposed concentration on promoting new ways of combating discrimination and any form of inequality in the labour market.
We have taken good note of your intentions.
With regard to the events of recent days, I would like to say - and I am saying this on the day, and the week, that the Intergovernmental Conference is starting - we have to place far more value and fundamental emphasis upon the charter on fundamental rights which, given what we have said about the Austrian crisis, I believe should be fully included in the Treaties.
Secondly, I must also assert my total conviction that neither Spain nor Andalusia is xenophobic or racist. Of course this does not mean that I do not totally condemn the violence used by individuals or groups who deserve to be prosecuted firmly and rigorously by the law, and by the law alone.
I believe that I can say with conviction and also with satisfaction that 1999 was both a turning point and a year of consolidation by the Union on issues of freedom, security and justice.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the transport of dangerous goods by road, which entered into force on 1 January 1997, contains a number of transitional provisions which are only valid for a limited period of time, the term of validity being linked to the completion of specific standardisation work by the CEN, that is the European Committee for Standardisation.
It has not been possible for the Court of Auditors to issue an auditor' s statement to the effect that the arrangements covered by the accounts are lawful, and we should regard it as extremely problematic if we, as Members of this Parliament, were to vote in favour of accounts without having any guarantee of the legality of the arrangements concerned.
I note that you consider the fall of the Berlin wall to be the crucial factor of the end of the century.
Moreover, Europe is still the main destination for tourists from third countries, even though it faces increasingly stiff competition and an increasingly diversified and attractive range of products.
Almost three weeks after the disaster, several thousand people were still without electricity and telephones, 500 000 hectares of forestry land, or 100 million cubic metres of forest, have been ruined, and our historical heritage has also been affected, as the sad example of the park at the Palace of Versailles demonstrates.
He should perhaps use his position on the Tobin tax to ask himself why he is here at all!
Consideration should be given to what science is offering in the way of knowledge, and this should be used as an important political tool for protecting the environment and people' s health.
Just now, Commissioner Liikanen was talking of restructuring which must not be uninformed.
You talk about greater transparency, but produce proposals which would lead to documents which, at present, are available for public inspection being locked away.
I would like to assure you as quaestor in charge of this issue that we have had technical discussions about the various channels on television and radio, and I have already started mailing colleagues in this connection.
I would be grateful if you could be disciplined since we are running out of time, and this delay is going to limit the time available for Questions to the Commission.
We are going through a dangerous transitional phase in which a phenomenon has appeared in criminal law that is perhaps unique in monetary history.
We also face difficulties with regard to offences.
I want to congratulate him, sadly in his absence, for the thorough and rigorous way in which he has undertaken the preparation of his report - and also for putting up with my being such a thorn in his side!
The Commissioner said a while ago that he had emotional ties with Mozambique, as I have myself, and that he therefore understands the whole tragic situation taking place and what is at stake.
Equally, we should come down hard on those who are corrupt or whose constitutions do not allow the pluralist governments that we demand.
Faced with this challenge the Commission recommended essentially that our economic policy merely should prolong our past stance which limits itself to setting right the monetary and fiscal fundamentals of the economy while for the rest putting faith in the markets to work their miracle without any further intervention by conscious social agents.
The mechanisms used in the cooperation between the governments of the Member States must therefore be reinforced and made more coherent, more transparent and more democratic.
We need not restrict ourselves to alcoholic products.
Article 280 of the Treaty allows the Council to pinpoint the appropriate instruments to curb fraud.
In this respect, important Community initiatives arose from Bergen which have always been supported by our committee. These are aimed at re-establishing the breeding biomass, reducing and adapting fishing effort to resources, protecting juveniles, species and their habitats and adopting technical measures aimed at selective and responsible fisheries.
A woman must not attain political or administrative responsibilities automatically thanks to the implementation of the quota but by having her own merits and skills recognised.
My last question relates to something people constantly approach me about and is therefore addressed to the Commission. Will the directive prejudice the accession negotiations?
Not so long ago we were dealing with one or more reports on questions of principle relating to the euro in virtually every part-session.
Less than two years is not much time if we bear in mind also that the fishing policy is anomalous with regard to the internal market regulations and that such anomalies should be resolved within the framework of this reform process.
What we need here is an integral approach.
We have to admit that our European sense of responsibility is no more developed in this respect.
Particular attention is also paid to the dissemination of results and learning from each other by identifying best practice, with special emphasis on mainstreaming.
Madam President, I actually feel that we ought not to have continued discussing this because we said everything there was to say in the last debate.
We must regulate the use of flags of convenience, make double hulls mandatory for the transport of polluting or dangerous materials, work on technological innovations in order to be able to process or recover hydrocarbons at sea.
There are still sectors such as air transport, energy and telecommunications in which, if we compare our unit cost with that of the USA or other countries which are equally competitive at international level, the cost supported by our companies is very high.
That is how the wolf - albeit on account of the self-sacrifice of the ÖVP - is sustained rather than kept in check.
I am saying this objectively and when a problem or shortcoming is noted, this must be remedied.
The definitions 'standardised futures contracts' and 'standardised options' should therefore be combined to form a new definition, 'financial derivative instruments' , which also covers OTC derivatives.
Ever since the early nineties, the European Parliament, the European Commission and the European Council of Ministers have recognised that this coherence of European policy is leaves something to be desired, especially in the field of development cooperation and in other EU policies.
Mr Schmidt has done an excellent job here.
There is, as has already been said, one point still to resolved, which is also the most delicate one: it concerns article 18 of the convention, which relates to the interception of communications originating in one Member State, but which are directly performed by another Member State, without the assistance being requested of the State in which the interception is being carried out, something which is now possible thanks to the latest technology.
I wish that the Chinese authorities had responded consistently and positively to that overture from the Dalai Lama.
Firstly, Parliament must have complete access to all Commission documents.
But, equally, we will not hesitate to withdraw our support financially or otherwise should steps be taken which do not correspond to the openness promised by Commission President Romano Prodi prior to his nomination.
I have already said that the authority will be charged with developing networks with national food safety agencies and bodies in the Member States.
In any event, the Bureau will consider your suggestion.
While the reform strategy White Paper will clearly outline our ideas on these and other points, detail and precision are obviously essential.
Sound democracy means being alert and not blind in one eye.
In expressing the hope that these men will be the last victims of ETA, I call on this organisation finally to cease resorting to violence and to use the democratic channels that exist in Spain.
But if that is true, then at the very least we need to be more imaginative and honest with ourselves in looking for that way forward.
I am sure that the situation will be just the same and, as far as I am concerned, in my current position, I shall ensure that the contributions of your two representatives are listened to and respected throughout these negotiations.
In Spain they say a letter to the three kings.
The White Paper also reflects the concerns of this Parliament which you have outlined to both President Prodi and myself on the numerous occasions we have debated food safety in this House since the Commission was appointed.
The account of the Dineh Indians is telling.
So the time has come and I would ask Mr Solana and Mr Patten to tell Mr Michel that perhaps he is going a bit too far and that finally it may backfire on him, which is what I hope will happen.
Do you believe that these proposals, or proposals of this type, form part of the mandate of the IGC as defined in Helsinki?
We hope that the Council will also make an effort to subject itself to the control of this Parliament.
Excluding women from the centres of power means, first, democratic failure and, secondly, under-exploitation of human resources.
That legislative framework is the 1995 directive, which has a set of regulations with a degree of flexibility which should perhaps be implemented more rigorously.
The second priority, which several of you have stressed, Mr Puerta in particular, but there were others, not that I am mentioning them in any order of priority, is the strengthening of social cohesion and of employment, particularly by raising the profile of human resources far more so than in the past.
One example of this is the 'Celtic' area which encompasses the territories of Brittany in France, Cornwall and Devon in the United Kingdom and Cork and Waterford in Ireland. This is an area whose locally-based economy is characterised by dependence on the fishing industry and the importance of the agri-foodstuffs sector.
You promised Parliament you would raise this subject with the Quaestors that very evening.
The outcome can be considered reasonable, when we take into account the fact that the adoption of the programme called for a unanimous decision to be made in the Council.
In order to generate extra means if necessary, I think it is entirely logical to turn first to the Member States and private investors.
The Commission in Brussels responded to the victims' cries for help with a shrugging of shoulders.
The second pillar consisted of embracing a large number of structural reforms, privatisation, de-regulation proposals, as well as suggestions facilitating the transition to a knowledge-based economy which, as we know, constitutes the backbone of the proposals of the presidency for the Lisbon Summit.
I would like to ask what new steps the Council can take to safeguard their interests in the forthcoming world trade talks, in particular, against the ranch and factory-style production of the USA and New Zealand where economies of scale make competitive family farming for European farmers extremely difficult and where, of course, European standards of food safety do not apply.
Amendment No 16 jeopardises the protection of investors because a blocked security deposit with a third party custodian is a contradiction in terms.
Mr President, Commissioner, with regard to the strategy which has been set out here on modernising social security, I would like to point out some positive things as well as raise some questions that have come up for me.
Hence there is certainly every reason to introduce more far-reaching regional provisions.
I want to thank the Commission for its efforts in this area and for the cooperation with the Commission' s officials, which has been quite excellent.
We have voted against Amendments Nos 25 and 72 which would require the achievement of minimal anthroprogenic pollution in all groundwater.
Stenzel report (A5-0034/2000)
For the time being, please let me apply the Regulation which has not yet been applied as it was only approved in Berlin.
Mr President, the fact that the different groups in this Parliament are tabling a motion for a resolution, in this ever controversial debate, which is the result of a broad consensus, seems to me to demonstrate the clear political will to decisively support open peace processes.
If their confidence is damaged this is reflected in shopping decisions. This in turn has a dramatic effect on farmers, producers and industry generally.
Such is life.
USD 1 800 billion is the volume of money moved every day in the world' s currency markets. This represents over a quarter of the annual global volume of trade in goods and services.
Mr President, I also rise on a point of order.
By taking action in the field of culture, we are directly contributing to the construction of a European soul, especially given the fact that the sub-programmes which make up "Culture 2000" are superb.
The Structural Funds contribution which has enabled greater penetration of the renewable energy market was also underlined in the campaign to promote renewable energy sources launched by the Transport and Energy Department.
Article 56 of the Treaty, prohibiting currency speculation or any interference in the free movement of capital, must be removed so that damaging currency speculation may be checked by means of political control.
We mustered the capacity to intervene in relation to Kosovo, and we are now making a complete mess of Kosovo by failing to put adequate resources and staff and people in there to deal with a situation and demonstrating our inability to deal significantly with conflict prevention.
We are now endeavouring, at huge cost, to get the country back on its feet again and help its people, and rightly so.
Only reasonable, feasible and humane principles of immigration and asylum law can counter the irrational, misleading and demagogic allegations of the extreme right.
Question No 28 by (H-0781/99):
Mr President, Commissioners, I greatly welcome the possibilities for increased trans-European cooperation under INTERREG, but my concern is that the proposal offers fewer opportunities in this respect for maritime than for other areas.
This study is taking far too long and we feel it is important to speed up the pace at last.
I am thinking, for example, of the idea that these guidelines are not specific enough in their recommendations.
This is all in accordance with the principles that we have always upheld.
Rural areas make up over 80% of the EU' s territory and 25% of the population live in them.
It is a major threat to civil liberties in EU.
Once that is done, issues such as liability can be addressed.
As far as excessive paper is concerned, the dilemma is spelt out by Mrs Morgan.
Or should we even consider a system in which 50% of seats are reserved for women in elected bodies?
Finally, I wonder whether the funds could not be put to better use.
This is the message that Parliament is sending to the Council.
I too must say that I will be voting for this joint text for a Council and European Parliament decision with a very heavy heart.
Please therefore accept what I am about to say as being criticism made in the spirit of honest debate, and I believe that in this way our debate here today will be richer.
Of course the promotion of this is desirable and permanent employment need not necessarily mean full-time employment.
Furthermore, I would ask the Commission to please reconsider the limited opportunities that have been offered to the most remote and island regions according to the guidelines put forward in the communication.
And, in this regard, you are going to the heart of democracy as it relates to distribution policy and people' s social conditions, which are what voters wish to influence when they go to the polls.
We hope that this presidency will mark the beginning of a change of attitude on the part of the Council towards this Parliament.
By that I mean the use, and often abuse, of embargoes during recent years, and the over-cautious application of the clause allowing suspension of the agreements between the European Union and third countries, where there have been human rights violations.
One of the most significant transfers - the Tajo-Segura transfer - which has been in use for many years, almost 30 years, has an allowance of 658 hm3 per year.
Just what is an army in the absence of a home country, in the absence of territory - because Europe is incapable of clearly defining its borders - and in the absence of clearly identified vital interests, which the Fifteen have, for good reason, never dared to discuss.
This preparatory work, this fine-tuning, must not be omitted, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I know from my own experience in Amsterdam that it is extremely important and useful, and that it will not just be limited to technical details.
We should counter such acts of terror, Mr President, by setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry as quickly as possible so that we can decide how we can succeed in preventing other conflicts of a similar nature elsewhere. My fellow Member, Mrs Roure, was right to remind us just now that we all need to put our own house in order.
But beware of the backlash from the workers and the unemployed, who we keep telling that everything is getting better and better while they find that their lives are not improving but, on the contrary, are getting worse.
What is required here is a training policy to qualify and prepare people for new jobs, for those who already have a job and for those who need a second opportunity, because sometimes, as the title of the film states, the postman always rings twice.
Therefore, the proposal of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, and which you have mentioned, is that the Prodi Commission present its legislative programme on Wednesday, including its proposed administrative reform, because, otherwise, we could find ourselves in a paradoxical situation: on the pretext that there is no text, on the one hand, the President of the Commission would be denied his right to speak in this Parliament and, on the other hand, there would be a debate on a reform when Parliament had no prior knowledge of the texts on which it is based.
As for the EU' s responsibility, the rights of children must be recognised in the Charter according to the areas in which the Union can give added value to the promotion of the social and economic situation and even the citizenship, in its broadest sense, of children.
That is a prime reason why the new government had to be formed in Austria; for the Austrian People' s Party, the ÖVP, wants to continue to act as guarantor of economic stability. The ÖVP wants to ensure that we continue to meet the Maastricht criteria and reduce the public deficit, as we have agreed here.
At a time when the Joint Assembly is opening its doors ever wider to the elected representatives from parliaments in the ACP, this dimension must not only be preserved; above all, it must be encouraged.
If the Court of Auditors were able to assess regularly the potential conflicts between environmental concerns and structural development, it would be very important because the Court of Auditors could do an extremely good job.
The document mentions common values on different occasions.
All those things come together.
I ask the Commission to incorporate this into a study of how the situation should be managed now that the emergency is over.
First, they need to be able to prevent this type of discharge more efficiently by equipping the most critical industrial sites; then they need to have suitable technical means of curbing and containing this type of pollution and, finally, they need to be able to implement programmes to restore the most affected and the most sensitive sites.
Madam President, I would like to comment on the request Mrs Stenzel has made to postpone the vote on the Community initiative EQUAL until tomorrow.
It worked for us.
Mr President, I do not intend to repeat the premise put forward earlier for fear of being accused of improper publicity.
In some of your amendments you propose that we limit further the type of bodies which can be provided with Union funds, for example, Amendments Nos 3 and 5.
Any failure to comply with legislation is a matter that can be dealt with in the courts in the normal way.
Concerning Article 366A, I can say that, during the negotiations for a new partnership agreement, a new procedure was established for dealing with instances where human rights and the principles of democracy and the rule of law are infringed.
I will only give the example of my own country to illustrate how this system functions there without any problems.
The Committee on Women' s Rights paid particular attention to the issue of education, because according to official figures women account for 53% of those engaged in tourism services, and in parallel, they form a majority among the working people most easily affected by social and economic change.
In other words, our rapporteur is proposing an oral amendment to add a recital reading: 'Whereas Malta and Cyprus will participate...'
I would therefore like to ask you, Mr Commissioner: does it seem normal to you that an unfinished building should be opened during an election campaign?
The Lisbon Summit will provide an excellent opportunity to present a strategy of this kind.
Mr Corbett, thank you for your comments.
Mr President, I too would like to compliment Mr Swoboda on his report.
So we shall be freeing up new resources, but - I fear, and I want to state this before Parliament - the time will come when these new resources that we are already freeing up will, in turn, be insufficient in terms of allowing us to address our new tasks: I am thinking of enlargement, the new sector of justice and home affairs, health issues and environmental matters.
The Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and his Foreign Secretary yesterday made statements on their policy in regard to the voting system within the Council.
But unfortunately, as we speak today in the safety of this Chamber, human rights abuses are occurring throughout the free world.
I would also address the Spanish Member in this respect: in the North of Europe, we often face floods, but also polluted water, from industry, whilst the problem facing the Members in the South is often related to transporting water over long distances, simply to supply drinking water or water for agriculture.
In this respect, Parliament will definitely defend, along with yourselves, the importance of supranational decision-making.
At first we were somewhat irresolute and we regret that now.
Mr President, the agreement being promoted will be the first application of the Stability Pact in south-eastern Europe,
After all, we are all aware how difficult it was within the Council to bring this common position about, and that it was a very difficult balancing act to reach this common position.
I must stress that this exemption is not a refusal of work for any reason, be it the reason which you mentioned, sexual orientation, ethnic discrimination or any other reason.
We base the allocation of funds not only on an assessment of each country's needs, but also of its policy performance.
That is my initial response to the threshold question.
These will take place at a later date.
The equality between men and women which most affects the lives of women and therefore society in general is equality in work. This involves both equality in accessing work, which implies equality in training, and equal pay for the same work, so often defended and yet far from being achieved.
. (NL) Mr President, could I first of all express my heartfelt thanks to rapporteur, Mr Olle Schmidt, and the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which has principal authority, as well as the rapporteur, Mr Brian Crowley and the members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, whom I would like to thank for their thorough and important work on the refinement and extension of the proposals.
The next item is the report (A5-0031/2000) by Mr Swoboda, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the recommendation for a Council Decision authorising the Commission to negotiate a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with FYROM (SEC(1999)1279 - C5-0166/1999 -1999/2121(COS)).
Perhaps these issues should be approached with greater attention and a greater esprit de finesse.
On the other hand, with regard to point d of Amendment No 10, which refers to the first directive, you suggest that, for reasons of public security or public order regulations, a Member State may reject the validity of the card.
My second concern was that some discriminated groups have specific problems, for example, disabled people' s access to the workplace.
I am pleased that the Structural Funds are the subject of discussions in Greece and Spain.
I see the Commissioner smiling but I speak with the authority of all the political parties in Northern Ireland, a diverse crowd but all agreed on this one issue.
With a new Commission and a new Parliament up and running the momentum for reform is now as strong as it ever has been and probably ever will be.
Nevertheless, I would like to say that Yugoslavia was what it was, in the sense that the state managed to harmonise some of its people' s ethnic differences to a degree. It must be pointed out that it did this at a time when its political framework was far from ideal in terms of being democratically representative.
The situation, however, is that a social model is being established whose real purpose is harmonisation, and uniform harmonisation into the bargain.
This report recommends radical measures, which in essence will make it easier to employ people.
Therefore, it seems essential to us that the directive complies, in practice, with the obligation laid down in article 164 of the Treaty on the need for Community legislation to take account of the diversity of its regions.
The future will show whether it is right, by means of this new parliamentary assembly, to reduce the Commission' s powers regarding these issues.
It would have been wrong for Parliament to have put in willy nilly every single recommendation that came from an external body because Parliament should have its own opinion on these issues.
I would like to start by thanking my colleagues for their cooperation on this report, it would not be what it is today without that spirit of cooperation.
Two days later, Toyota, which employs several thousand people in my region, stated that this directive would not only increase the cost of cars but could well also mean redundancies in their Derbyshire plant.
So establishing relations between the European Union and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia on a completely new basis, and offering that country the prospect of full integration into the structures of the European Union through the mechanism of the stabilisation and association process, constitutes an important contribution to stability in the Balkans.
On Monday, just two days ago, in Sintra, a beautiful city very close to Lisbon, the Defence Ministers of the fifteen Member States met and took some important decisions towards implementing this Headline Goal defined in Helsinki.
A few days ago Mr Racan announced that Croatia' s formal membership application would be presented at the end of 2000.
The credit for Mozambique' s success story must be shared equally by its government, by the opposition, but above all, by the people of Mozambique.
In fact, the same phenomenon occurs in tax law.
Surely these subjects will be of the greatest relevance to a revision of the treaties which will contribute to the stability of the area of freedom, security and justice?
However, it is also a question of political agendas.
The rules pertaining to the steel industry were drawn up on 18 December 1996.
It is clear that the spread of AIDS in the sub-Saharan African Continent is linked to poverty.
It is a good feeling to be able to say that he is from our delegation and I am, I think, entitled to feel a little proud of him.
I should like to take this opportunity to stress how important it is that, in future, all the directives are dealt with under Article 152, since both food safety and environmental issues require a coherent policy and a comprehensive overview.
This has worked fairly well, but, as in the famous film Casablanca 'time goes by' and we must adapt the legislation we have been applying until now to the new circumstances.
Finally, we think it absolutely essential to pay particular attention to preventing such risks, as well as to scientific research work in order to avoid and eliminate damage.
This is why I find it also difficult to meet Mr Medina halfway and respond to his question.
The fate of the Commission, of the whole European Union, rests on delivery of this reform.
It seems to hit on all the right points without just being like some of the old reports, a series of details.
I would also thank Mrs Palacio most warmly for her major contribution as chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
For us new members, it was the first time, and this was a very interesting process.
Having said this, some of our fellow Members clearly have qualms because the report by the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities which we have voted on contains one point which may lead to confusion and is interpreted by some as a quota stipulating that there must be 40% female participating in research in Europe.
It is not enough to claim to adhere to democracy in order to be a democrat.
It takes on board the extensive consultations of the past couple of years since the Commission's Green Paper on food law was published.
Subject: Construction of nuclear plant in earthquake-prone Turkey The two recent earthquakes in Turkey registering more than 7 on the Richter scale raise tremendous doubts about Turkey's persistence with the construction of costly nuclear reactors at Akkuyu, while energy reserves produced by the Atatürk dams are exported to third countries and the EU spends a slice of its budget on repairing the damage wrought by the earthquakes.
Mr President, the monopolies' ban is the key element of functioning competition order in Europe.
We must be very vigilant.
So the "Grappa War" is over.
Sadly, I fear, the Council will yet again fail to act and we will be back in the future discussing yet another maritime and ecological disaster.
We feel that these issues result from the IGC' s appropriateness and its objectives, as well as from the matters which will inevitably be discussed there.
Macedonia deserves our support, especially in view of the self-sacrificial, disinterested work which the people and leaders of Macedonia undertook during the Kosovo war.
Previous speakers have already kindly pointed this out.
Madam President, it is clear that we in this Parliament are very largely agreed on rejecting Mr Haider and his politics, but it is equally clear that opinion differs as to the most effective way of opposing this brand of politics.
This should first of all stand for better service.
One of them is the series of measures which must be adopted immediately in order to deal with the specific effects of social exclusion. The second is to create internationally competitive conditions, which will enable us to improve the economic fabric of the European Union, and this will have positive knock-on effects on the problems of social exclusion.
What is the Commission' s verdict on this?
Change in the law is fundamental.
We see it as a very positive sign that, in her own conclusions, the rapporteur has taken account of our committee' s proposal that the Cohesion Fund countries should broaden the research infrastructure by locating universities and colleges in such a way that they would serve those who live in undeveloped regions better than now and make it easier for educated people to remain in their home districts.
Nonetheless, as far as the divided island of Cyprus is concerned, overall, this pre-accession strategy is bound up with a major political challenge.
Also the type of project funded needs to be shifted away from small-scale revenue-based projects, which are hard to monitor, towards capital schemes where, in the majority of cases, the benefits are there for all to see.
Finally, we propose keeping both a register, as mentioned by a number of my fellow MEPs, and also a scoreboard showing where the Member States at present stand with regard to state aid.
As things are at present, the Golan Heights account for between a third and a sixth of Israel's water supply.
Will it set out established social rights in the European Union or will it set a broader agenda?
In addition to the scoreboard, I would like to anticipate the following initiatives that the Commission intends to present during 2000 - and I would like to emphasise that I am delighted the Portuguese Presidency is treating progress in the area of freedom, security and justice as a priority in its work programme.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
In contrast, at European level it would be possible to look into measures for improving the relations between hotels and Tour Operators, for example a regulation of such relations, the promotion of a special bankruptcy fund, etc., in collaboration with representatives from the two branches.
(Parliament adopted the two legislative resolutions in two separate votes)
That it is dangerous to rely on the provisions made by the Council.
I would be grateful, Commissioner, if you would take these passing comments on board in the report on scrapie and in the general report on the fight against TSEs and bear in mind that we shall be calling you to account on these points.
Madam President, on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left, I must add my voice to those of my colleagues who have expressed their grief at the truly perverse and cruel outrage which has occurred in the Basque Country. We send our condolences to the families of the victims and emphatically condemn these acts which have been going on for so long and which must stop.
How do matters stand in Kosovo with regard to the rebuilding of the administration, the judiciary and, most importantly of all, the police force?
Brittany and Galicia, two European 'Lands Ends' , fall constant prey to the irresponsibility of those who prefer not to comply with safety regulations and transport crude oil in vessels which in themselves constitute potential oil slicks.
The Commission would like to propose finding a solution to this problem which would then apply to all companies based in the European Union which employ staff from non-EU countries.
Clearly though, it must be monitored, a task which falls to the European Commission.
Once again, I can report two highly successful Assemblies having taken place, one in Strasbourg and one in Nassau.
Mr President, fishing is an extremely important economic activity which involves major investment. Most of its jobs are provided under fairly tough conditions throughout entire Community regions.
In cross-border cooperation, greater emphasis must be placed on improving the conditions for the economic activity of the small and medium-sized undertakings which are the job creators.
Since the report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs did not go far enough in this respect, I abstained.
The Council hopes to achieve good quality groundwater within 16 years, but the Commission wants no further deterioration in the chemical status of groundwater so that good quality groundwater can be achieved in 10 years.
It is already established within the Community acquis that those legislative issues which are decided by a qualified majority are also subject to codecision with Parliament.
Heavy-handedness - a prescription of how private sector managers should invest and where they should invest - will merely reduce returns to savers.
Your country filed an official application to join the Union in 1996 and accession negotiations were finally officially opened in 1998.
In order to combat distortion of competition and prevent dumping, the Commission has, in my opinion, developed a well-balanced approach which steers a midcourse between harmonisation and non-intervention.
We must therefore welcome the fact that the Helsinki European Council put an end to the speculation and stated in its conclusions, and I quote, that "If no settlement has been reached by the completion of accession negotiations, the Council' s decision on accession will be made without the above being a precondition" .
In spite of all its virtues though, LIFE III' s regulation fails in what is obviously the most important aspect of determining a financial instrument' s impact, which is its budget.
Perhaps it would be better, however, if the positions of responsibility within the European Union and the other institutions from the OSCE to the United Nations, were to get together some time to introduce a uniform, coordinated procedure and to examine how we can be of real assistance to the people there.
Saying that the cultural dimension is governed by the principle of subsidiarity and that it is therefore national governments who are responsible is, I am afraid, just an excuse.
We are therefore proposing to amend the regulations as follows.
I am from the Social Committee and rapporteurs on our committee are always proud to receive 100 amendments because then they know that they have tabled an interesting topic.
In view of the humanitarian aid being given by the European Union and the efforts being made by the head of the interim administration, Mr Bernard Kouchner, what measures will the Council take to defend the rights of the women of Kosovo to motherhood and to protect the health of pregnant women, women in confinement and new-born children?
There is also a proposed amendment to both of Mrs De Palacio' s reports.
Our role should be to accompany, reassure and assist those who are fleeing dictatorships.
The Financial Regulation should be amended.
Quite simply there is no question of this.
The BBC this morning reported that a British Member of this House, holding a senior position within his delegation, continues to offer strategic advice to private clients, but does not state in the Register of Interests who these clients are.
In the previous speech Mrs Schierhuber said that scrapies is an insidious disease.
We continue to demand a review of the agreement in order to incorporate better parliamentary and judicial control.
We shall vote against any amendments which run counter to these considerations.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
Merit must be recognised and rewarded, specific skills training should be a sine qua non for promotion to a higher grade.
Mr President, this is not exactly a point of order but concerns a communication we have before us today, namely that the Conference of Presidents open to Members, which was scheduled for 23 February, has now been cancelled.
The resolution I would love to have a debate on in Parliament one day is on demining, and particularly the importance of destroying the stocks of existing mines: stocks in the Ukraine, stocks in Moldova and stocks elsewhere.
The fact is, showing solidarity with Eastern Europe, is all very well, but it is not enough.
Better to heed calls to amend and improve existing legislation than to embark on new proposals.
In the future it will be possible to have programmes not only in the individual zones eligible for structural aid but in all the regions of the EU.
As with the systems of forces which are studied in basic physics, it makes no sense to implement policies which will cancel each other out.
In the thirties, when Adolf Hitler was democratically elected, although with a minority, many people thought that it was not as bad as all that and, Mr Poettering, in France, a number of men and women, on the right wing but perhaps of other political persuasions too, thought, 'Better Hitler in France than the Front Populaire.'
Furthermore, the Member States refused to contribute more funds when we discussed Agenda 2000 which means that there will be little available over the next few years at Union level.
It is important that we know who the actors are and what their credit rating is.
Someone must be held to account for the events that took place there, some of which I saw with my own eyes as a representative of this House; they cannot go unpunished.
Certain sectors of European industry, such as the shipbuilding industry, air transport and the steel industry, which have been hard hit by existing competition policy, have suffered tremendously.
Mr President, Commissioner, I want to begin by thanking Mr Rapkay for a good report and constructive cooperation.
The French must be made aware not only that the purpose of all these operations is to eliminate their country as a responsible centre for decision making, but that furthermore every means will be used to extract their consent.
This is extremely important and everyone should feel concerned because we are, when all is said and done, on the global scale merely a peninsula.
Some of the amendments today are totally unreasonable in that they take away completely the responsibility from the car manufacturer of paying a little if any of the cost of disposal of cars on the road.
Peat cannot be classified as belonging in the same group as fossil fuels.
Since it is the declared aim of all politicians throughout Europe to reduce unemployment, then one must pose the critical question as to whether the policy employed is the right one or whether it would not be more appropriate to boost the competitiveness of the regions by appropriate measures such as increased support for research and development, improvements in infrastructure and raising the level of training.
A year later, it is still not functioning, which means that the Commission spent money on a false opening.
Having said this, Mr President, this Parliament is holding this debate today because we did not want to delay the start of the Conference.
As the French say, "ne jettons pas le bébé avec l'eau du bain" [let us not throw the baby out with the bath water], that is to say, in the protection of the Community' s financial interests, we must respect, on the one hand - as Mrs Theato has said - the competences of the Member States, but also other matters which affect the citizens, which affect the essential guarantees.
We are now four months down the line.
We will make every effort to improve them as much as possible and prevent them from being wasted, and most important of all, we will try to foster the struggle of farmers against the disastrous CAP which is disinheriting them and leading them towards economic decline and the desertion of the countryside.
The EQUAL initiative relates to all forms of discrimination within the meaning of Article 13, namely the fight against discrimination based on race, gender, age, and special needs.
It is certainly not going to be possible to reduce unemployment with all these additional regulations and forms of interference.
- (ES) Mr President, I want to start by saying that I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party which I represent on this issue.
These were our reasons for abstaining from the vote on this report.
Mr President, sadly, once again, Parliament is having to discuss the restructuring of companies in Europe.
Unfortunately, my Dutch is not as good as yours.
The present proposal is complex, because it deals with agreements between Member States but has far-reaching consequences for the citizen-government relationship.
I do, however, have one small concern, when I hear the Commissioner on the subject of the commitments made by their services in the Committee on Budgets.
As politicians we must devote special attention to defending consumer interests.
In addition we must build on the Council directive dealing with enforcement of international standards for ship safety and pollution prevention by ensuring that the inspection goal of 25% of ships calling at EU ports is met and that a high standard of inspection is delivered.
In essence this means applying the principle of subsidiarity.
There is already a very successful industry out there which is shredding cars, recovering metals and recovering energy by the incineration of the non-metallic parts.
In 1999, we had 7 murders and that does not include the Omagh bomb where 29 were killed and 300 injured.
To strengthen the role of tourism in Europe, the organisations should do what has happened in most economic sectors: seek better focus, better coordination and concentrated activities.
Poverty and wealth used to depend more on means of livelihood.
We must incorporate the gender factor in science, research and all other European Union policies, in order to put an end to the structural discrimination which prevents women competing on equal terms in the labour market.
Yet there is a Council resolution from last June on tourism and employment.
We also need to recognise that people who live in glasshouses should not throw stones.
This, however, does not seem feasible.
You have one minute each in which to ask your question.
For example, the overflow from the decanting basins at the gold mines in Salsigne, in France, have caused tremendous pollution and are a huge economic disaster even today.
Hence my support for the sound report by Mr Swoboda; we have come to expect nothing less of him, and hence also my words of appreciation for the respected Republic of Macedonia.
Allow me to give you a specific example to illustrate this.
It is not easy to combine those aims. There is no obvious way.
Therefore, Commissioner, we are relying on this interinstitutional dialogue to put the finishing touches to a reform which we are all hoping for and which we believe will lead us to a successful conclusion under your direction and with our cooperation.
At present, we trust that the Commission will produce these sound proposals, but it is not a foregone conclusion that it will do so.
LEADER + can cover all the regions of the EU, while LEADER 2 covered only the Objective 1 regions and some Objective 5b and 6 regions.
Secondly, the entire population of Yugoslavia is being held accountable for the actions of Milosevic and his circle, which is wrong on humanitarian grounds and politically counterproductive.
As a corollary, there will be safeguards for officials who are the subject of false allegations.
We must reduce protective tariffs in order to safeguard effective capacity utilisation in undertakings in the processing industry.
The ecological disaster on the banks of the Danube is a reminder, as if we needed one, that all too often human negligence jeopardises natural resources such as water.
Since then, the capital market and transferable securities have not just continued to evolve; thanks to unbridled financial globalisation, they have exploded exponentially and without restraint.
The Commission' s proposal, however, does not take account of all the facts, such as the cold climate that prevails in the northern regions.
Whether total or partial, privatisation will only make an already dismal situation worse.
The policy undertaken by the European institutions and by national governments, especially the French government, is a retrograde policy, counter to the interests of both the service users, i.e. the great majority of the population, and the postal service workers.
We have not heard anything from Mr Solana about what diplomatic intervention he or the European Union is making in a serious way - serious diplomatic interventions - to stop the slaughter in Chechnya.
This is no longer tolerable.
What we need to do now is to deal with the fallen timber as swiftly as possible.
I think that Mrs Karamanou is aware that, because of the need for division of labour between the international donors, the task of restoring health care in Kosovo has been entrusted to the World Health Organisation.
Social problems will increase, interregional disparities will grow, and competition will occur only in those areas where the economy is strongest, areas where there are more people and, especially, more businesses.
In order to strengthen the funding of social security systems, we need a policy of general wage increase, the establishment of a minimum legal wage in each Member State.
We need - the whole Union needs - a strong Commission, a Commission which has regained its ability to act as a political entity and is recognisable as such in all its actions.
President Prodi and Commissioner Diamantopoulou have both issued separate statements.
The fostering of illicit competition between public and private social security systems and between the systems of the Member States is not only unjustifiable, but, on the contrary, makes manifest the political expediencies and intolerable pressures imposed upon social security systems to weaken or even do away with them, to the benefit of the private sector and the law of profit.
Mr President, the 1997 directive, issued on 21 January 1998, which undertook the partial liberalisation of postal services in Europe, envisaged a revision at a later date, in a rather convoluted manner, indeed, since it was to be dealt with in a Commission proposal by the end of 1998, then decided by 1 January 2000, to come into force finally by 1 January 2003.
European taxpayers will no longer accept their taxes being fraudulently used.
Mr President, this resolution expresses solidarity with the democratic forces in Spain fighting for human rights.
We have, as the EPP-ED group, submitted all the recommendations of the Wise Men' s report in committee and many of them have now been put into the report, entirely changing the nature of the van Hulten report in committee.
Openings and real growth are being hampered and the sudden influx or withdrawal of speculative capital is threatening the economies of many countries, to the point of collapse, as in Asia, Russia and Brazil.
Thank you, Mr Zimmerling: If I am informed correctly, this is the first time you are addressing this House.
Many speakers have cited examples of the extent to which the various policies are not coherent.
. (DA) The Left' s five Members of the European Parliament have chosen to support LEADER+, the EQUAL initiative and INTERREG, but not URBAN.
An important aspect of the tourism industry is employment and potential employment.
It has been mainly used in the environmental field, but, of course also when it comes to human health.
A firm attitude which the 14 European States have demonstrated unanimously and promptly, through Mr Guterres, by condemning the risk of the Austrian political situation getting out of control.
We want a Europe based on the principle of diversity within unity.
You said that the precautionary principle should not be used as a disguised trade barrier.
This is necessary if legal inequality is to be prevented, and issues of competition will gravitate towards the court where the most lenient judgements are given.
As you may be aware, in contrast with the cold Northern seas, the Mediterranean is a small, warm sea where there are very few, if any, schools of only one species of fish.
Today, nobody can ignore the fact that new digital technologies and systems, with Internet at the sharp end, mobile telephones and digital television, are bringing about radical changes in tourism as a whole and its respective structures and operational models.
The main risk is that the Commission, without adequate justification, might upset the balance which exists now by proposing to go swiftly on to a second phase of liberalisation which would, in some countries, throw off balance the funding of the universal postal service, making it unmanageable.
I have received 7 motions for resolution, pursuant to Rule 37(2), to close the present statement.
This package included renewed assistance for people-to-people activities and cross-border cooperation where Israelis and Arabs meet on non-governmental and expert levels.
The European information centres, which are already playing a vital role in raising public awareness of the single currency, should step up their campaigns to raise public awareness of counterfeiting.
The statements we have heard today on the Middle East peace process are very opportune at the moment because of the hurried tour which Minister Gama - whose absence from this debate I also regret - has made of the region, accompanied by other Council representatives.
Therefore Europe must be clearly committed to the Kyoto Protocol and make specific proposals.
If Air France insists on boycotting the European Parliament, we should take measures to prevent this occurring again.
Can I first of all congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report.
Spain maintained its unity, it kept the Basque country and Andalucia and Catalonia and it did well to do so, because no one identified Spain with Franco and no one played around with Spain' s unity in the name of a Fascist dictator.
I should like to draw attention to some of the aspects of the resolutions before us this afternoon, one or two of which were referred to earlier on.
However, the Council should also bear in mind that, if we are to improve the effectiveness of the fight against crime, we do not only need to widen Europol' s remit, as decided at Tampere; we also need to increase the number of officers and extend its remit to operational activities.
In his report, Karl von Wogau manages to capture this very well.
Madam President, I welcome Mr Corrie' s report as a balanced assessment of the work the Assembly has carried out over the last year.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Solbes Mira.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt asked me about establishing a positive list.
The debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance is closed.
Only the legal advisers to multinationals could demonstrate such stubbornness.
For a long time, many of us have sounded a warning that the European Union was spending too much time on its potentially damaging and essentially political project of establishing military decision-making structures, when instead it should have been concentrating its efforts on the improvement of its civil instruments, particularly for humanitarian intervention.
There are several people here who like myself for many years past have become familiar with Herr Haider' s offensive statements, the xenophobia of many of his policy elements and the strategy that he has developed of alternating aggressive statements with apologies, sometimes on successive days.
That is why, in my opinion, the manufacturer must take the greatest share of the responsibility.
Tourism brings the peoples of the fifteen States and of the entire world closer together, and of course, it leads to peace and understanding.
This is a false debate whose aim is purely political, and has no basis or technical viability.
For us, the Group of the European People' s Party and the European Democrats, it is not only the reform of the institutions of the European Union which will be important in the next five years; it is also important that we declare our faith in the single European currency and use the policy of stability as a basis for consolidating the European currency in coming years.
We need policemen in Kosovo right now!
What has happened over the past few days with the pollution of the Danube and its tributary has been instructive.
Where possible, one should also have the opportunity to present draft decisions in competition cases to the specialist chamber within the Court of First Instance.
The time period will elapse on 31 May next, to be precise, when the Commission will present a proposal.
The tone of the news in the media on the recent events in the area could lead us to take a pessimistic view of the situation.
And thirdly, if we are to have a transparent consumer policy, we need to label genetically-modified feedingstuffs.
We therefore welcome increased resources for OLAF so that we can investigate any suspicions more efficiently.
In the meantime, I will have someone check as to whether it would be a simple matter, technically speaking.
This is not only necessary for proper public administration, it is a conditio sine qua non of regaining the trust of the European citizen.
My reply is perhaps not satisfactory right now, but I would like to assure the honourable Member that the Commission will take that decision within a matter of weeks.
First Part
Are we doing enough?
I would like to add that Amendment No 10 to that proposal is wholly acceptable.
I admit that, at present, the matter seems to be somewhat confused.
That way the much-trumpeted need for transparency in the use of these funds and the temptation to draw unnecessarily in the longer term on the local tax base in areas where such projects are located will be diminished and the European Parliament will show how seriously it takes the need for such reform.
However, we have to work within the existing legislative framework.
In addition, I note that Parliament shares the Commission' s view that the preferred form for implementing LEADER+ is the use of global grants.
What we need are not just reforms of the World Trade Organisation and the economic architecture - and, significantly, the President of the Commission forgot to mention the reform of the financial institutions and international financial architecture; we also need confidence-building measures for our citizens, who rightly expect help and support from and in the EU with the inevitable and painful process of adapting to new global circumstances.
We face a unique challenge and the time is ripe for combining economic and political expediency with respect for basic democratic principles.
But I do not think he answered my question with regard specifically to tackling homelessness and housing and whether the Portuguese Presidency would be willing to meet the non-governmental organisations actively involved in this field.
There is no need for us to bring Parliament into the discussion on the Commission.
There is something else that we are keen to develop and this is very important for a state under the rule of law. We have 130 judges and public prosecutors, who have now been sworn in, and who are ready to take up their work of dispensing justice, with a view to enriching the culture of tolerance there a little, and to at least being able to track criminals down and then secure convictions.
As you know, an exercise was carried out in 1995 involving an overall assessment of development policies, and the results of this overall assessment exercise were presented during the German Presidency.
Today, Parliament is examining, for the last time, this text on 'end-of-life' vehicles and what is to be done with them: their destruction, a commendable intention with regard to our environment.
First, the form: the draft convention is vague in the extreme, and this is totally incompatible with the objective of legal certainty in a modern society.
The term 'legale esterno' has been translated into French as 'avocat neutre' . I have no idea what an 'avocat neutre' is.
You see, there are numerous matters of concern here and they are all very different.
Have the UK representatives indicated to the Council their decision and proposal and what, if any, consideration has been given to it?
We should consider on principle whether there is any point at all in holding these kinds of meetings.
Where the question of the budget is concerned, I am pleased about the confidence shown by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
If it functions well, if we are satisfied, if the Commission has basically acted correctly, why the need for the modification?
Naturally, that they should be environmentally friendly, that they should be recyclable, that they should be fuel-efficient and that they should not pollute our environment.
In fact, it implies nothing other than fixing the procedures for the exercise of the implementing powers conferred on the Commission.
In that sense, the agreement we will be voting on tomorrow, which contributes towards stability in the area, is de facto a move in the right direction.
Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance support the decision adopted by the European Council in Helsinki according to which the resolution of the conflict cannot be a prior condition for the accession of Cyprus to the European Union.
The entry into force of treaties largely depends on the European Union, because thirty ratification acts are required in order for treaties to enter into effect, and these acts that are signed by the European Union and the Member States, including associated countries, are of vital importance in order to reach this number.
We can only hope that it will, after all, be possible to persuade the Council to have a change of heart one day.
And the merit of Mr Corrie' s report is that it highlights the value of this original, proactive development instrument, together with the work carried out by the Joint Assembly.
We are debating the planning phase and guidelines for the four Community initiatives without access to any substantive and complete appraisal of the previous period. This is not very good at all.
This does not impose disproportionate costs upon manufacturers. Far from it.
I believe that this is particularly important as EU Structural Funds are always spent in a manner which maximises the economic development of different regions when local and regional authorities are involved in the decision-making process for the spending of such funds.
They are already having implications for resource availability.
I would not like to have someone coming and saying that these requirements will lead to job losses in the ports.
In other words, social security is a factor of production.
I also appeal to the Austrian President, that he might yet look into all the possibilities for forming a government made up of democratic forces.
The European Union should be taking a more decisive role that goes further than merely providing financial support, although that is important, by promoting and guaranteeing reconciliation between the two communities through the setting up of fora and confidence-building programmes.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have the feeling that some of the previous speakers have not read the 1999 annual report on the Union economy in its entirety and have made a conscious decision not to listen to my Group' s spokesman, Karl von Wogau, for the document that we are debating today, and which has had a report written on it, points to the fact that the introduction of the euro has been a success.
The internationally agreed objectives for reducing emissions cannot be achieved by these programmes alone.
But the country also - and especially - needs external stability.
Amsterdam and Tampere have given us much work to do together, as the excellent draft resolution by Mrs Terrón today shows.
Parliament is a separate subject.
Unfortunately my colleagues of the People' s Party aided and abetted by the Liberals in the Economic Affairs Committee found my approach unacceptable.
As in employment strategy, there are four thematic areas: employability, entrepreneurship, adaptability and equal opportunities, and we agree that those thematic areas should be enlarged in line with the European Parliament' s proposals.
I know that the Commission is set against this, but the potential exists.
Madam President, I would like to make it very clear that, above all, the Commission has absolute respect for the decisions of this Parliament and, amongst those, the decision establishing its agenda.
We shall now proceed to the vote.
However, there is, of course, also room for a certain amount of parliamentary scrutiny and control by the European Parliament.
We have never before seen such serious, clumsy interference in the internal affairs of a Member State.
Greece has been granted ECU 98 million. The contribution commitment is 80%, rising to an 85% contribution from the initiative for the island regions, especially the remote Greek islands, and a contribution by Greece of 15%.
That also includes bullets and weapons and so on and it is an early warning system.
In the same context, we could establish an early warning system functioning round the clock, together with a common information system for the rapid exchange of data between the responsible authorities.
Allow me just to go very briefly into a second matter.
Mr President, it must be some six years ago now that Mr Karl-Heinz Florenz, assisted by Mrs Ursula Schleicher, put in a request and managed to overhaul the water policy in its entirety.
I think we should reinstate this budget line.
The policy mix to be applied should specifically allow this capacity to be fully absorbed.
Mr President, one of the saving features of this Parliament is that here we practise a consistent and active human rights policy: the flag flies high, as Mrs Malmström put it.
This is why we explicitly refer to the autumn session of the International Monetary Fund so that the European Union, in other words the Commission and also the Council, can decide how it will defend the opportunity to stabilise the international financial and monetary system and introduce international taxation.
The deprived conditions in which they are living at the moment is forcing them to compromise against their better judgement under the financial and economic pressure exercised by the coal industries.
You also referred to the need for further scientific research on the nature of the disease.
In my view, and I say this quite clearly, the question is ideologically motivated rather than solution-focused.
Mr Schmidt is to be applauded for having obtained the support of Parliament for over-the-counter derivatives.
The agenda is designed to transfer vital parts of society' s criminal law, policy on crime and administration of justice to the EU' s control.
What is meant by the Commission' s declared objective of 'economic reform' in the labour market?
Madam President, the revenue basis of the Tobin tax is said to be made up of very short-term exchange transactions.
For the moment, it appears that, in the only country where liberalisation has taken place - Sweden - there has been a 59% increase in the price of postal services.
In this way, positive development of the regions is also possible, because people will start business and will work if they are given the chance.
In connection with the issue of State aid, I would also like to take up one of the points raised by Mrs Riis-Jørgensen, among others regarding repayment of illegal aid.
This would put more jobs at risk and also put at risk the credibility of this House by showing how remote we are from the real world.
He treated Roma, Albanians and Serbs and that is something unforgivable in Kosovo.
The prevalent theory that the enemy must be crushed and physically eliminated to achieve peace is not one which we can accept.
I would like to invite him to my own region of Yorkshire, a major European region that is a full participant in the single European market and a major recipient of European structural funding.
Mr President, Commissioner, I too congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent work. I am particularly pleased about the unanimity shown on this issue within the group.
I should also just like to draw Mr Dell' Alba' s attention to what the founding fathers of the European Union dreamed of. Take a look at Jean Monet' s memoirs.
Intergovernmental Conferences are a kind of event in themselves and could also be a type of Christmas tree.
In her question Mrs Kauppi asks why the Commission has prepared a package of measures distributed in two separate proposals. The reason is that the first proposal focuses essentially on the product, while the second proposal focuses essentially on the service provider, and on prospectuses for UCITS.
This is a fundamental way to increase and strengthen their confidence in us. I hope this will be demonstrated when we hold the next European elections.
As long as the European approach to the development issue creates more inefficiency and wastes more money, it remains appropriate to apportion a larger role to the Member States.
Let me also draw attention to the work on drawing up a European Union charter on fundamental rights, which has now reached the drafting stage.
The Commission hopes very much that this stage will soon be complete.
The debate is closed.
In a world characterised by permanent change and in the context of high levels of unemployment, the rules in force seem to us to be outdated as they do not allow or promote the key ideas behind our employment strategy and our approach to change, anticipation, risk prevention and employability.
. (PT) In response to your question, Mrs McKenna, I would first of all like to highlight the fact that the role of the Court of Auditors was laid down in the Treaty establishing the European Community.
Transnational strategies are intended to make it possible for disadvantaged groups to have access to jobs.
Europe now has a framework which will allow it to prevent any deterioration in the quality of water, promote its sustainable use, protect eco-systems, help fight floods and droughts and eliminate the disposal of dangerous substances.
Since then, the victims' families, who have not had the consolation of justice, since the pilot responsible has not faced criminal charges, have been awaiting solicitous financial compensation from the United States at the very least.
Lastly, Mr President, I believe we should favour the creation of small and medium-sized businesses which, if subject to rigorous approval and duly authorised, can promote the creation of jobs in this very important area, preventing the emergence of monopolies by large companies.
It is a framework for the protection and management of our water - surface, ground, transitional and coastal - through the establishment of river basin districts at national and, in our case in Ireland, cross-border level.
The European Commission draws up the list of eligible regions for strand A and strand B. It bases its assessment principally on the map of regions eligible during the previous programming period.
I therefore believe that it is necessary to act in two ways.
Having said that, in my opinion, the resolution adopted today is the absolute minimum, the very least we could do.
OLAF, Europol and the Treaty on Extradition and Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters should be used fully and, when the Fraud Convention from 1995 is at long last ratified in the Member States, we can also achieve a lot with this.
To do so also changes the owner' s liability retroactively.
Once the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has adopted the draft report unanimously with two abstentions, I would ask that we make full use of this opportunity, which we have ourselves created, in plenary sitting.
We see it as positive that an attempt is being made to reverse the trend towards water degradation, which is most alarming and which governments all too often tend to sweep under the carpet.
As the spokesperson for cultural and training policy for my group, I would have expected more in the way of agenda from an Italian President of the Commission.
This is a Europe of regions in which the regions, which are weaker than the nation states, will easily submit to Brussels.
I want to make it clear at the outset that the Commission unreservedly condemns the dreadful acts of violence at El Ejido against the immigrant workers of the region.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would once again like to thank Mrs Ahern for her work as rapporteur on this proposal, since she has contributed, in collaboration with the other Members, to the achievement of a very reasonable final result, which in some respects even improves on the proposals of the Commission itself and, of course, on what, from a budgetary point of view, the Council had initially accepted.
This could be achieved by no longer insisting, in future, that the financial controllers furnish every single payment transaction with their approval stamp.
However, the Council will certainly let you have a concrete reply on the options available for acting in the case you have mentioned.
In order to fully achieve its objective, the money supply released by such a tax must be redistributed among the poorest countries.
A couple of weeks ago we had a debate in Parliament on the nuclear safety issue with special regard to the candidate countries.
However, in my view, he will be no more able or willing to be integrated into this, into our political system, and into the Europe of today, than any other extreme right-wing movement.
When will those responsible at last understand that sparing resources is not something we do for fun; nor is it just a question of creating a system for its own sake or a new study group, rather it is a joint European challenge.
I want it to be clear that though I voted in favour of the report, I have this important reservation.
Those who organise illegal immigration should be prosecuted with the utmost vigour.
However, if Europe wants to take military action at crucial times, the Treaty must include a flexibility clause.
This question really would therefore seem to be a perfect measure of how to deal with problems of this kind in future.
This type of procedure is common practice since the programmes or legislative measures are too often allocated budgets which do not live up to their ambitions!
In fact, it is not written anywhere that it is restricted to criminal law.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have asked to speak again so that I can say a few more words at the close of this debate.
The proposal therefore aims to facilitate harmonisation of their legislation with the acquis communautaire and the correct application of the acquis communautaire.
I therefore call upon the Commission and the Council to find the information, the political will to provide genuine long-term solutions for fishing communities and not depend upon short-termism.
Accordingly, the Commission refused to put up with the fact that both European banks, the ECB and the EIB, contested the right of OLAF to include these two institutions in its investigations, citing their independent status.
I appreciate that it is a provocative question.
We German Christian Democrats used another strategy in the battle against extremists and clearly disassociated ourselves from them.
Here we have a Council which has managed to flout the treaty and employ a method completely unrelated to Articles 6 and 7 which make it possible to condemn a State in the event of a serious and persistent breach.
Madam President, I do not wish to reopen the debate, but I had also asked for the floor, to comment on Mr Barón Crespo's motion.
Is the reason bureaucracy or is it because insufficient notice has been taken of interregional differences, long distances, climates that are too cold or too hot, sparse populations and austere conditions?
Firstly, the governments made a commitment at the Maastricht Conference of 1992 to include a legal basis for this issue in the Treaties. This commitment was not fulfilled in the Treaty of Amsterdam of 1997 and is therefore outstanding.
Let us therefore take great care with work in a closed environment.
I endorse this view.
Amendments Nos 39, 40, 46 and 47 concern quantified objectives.
With the convening of the forthcoming IGC, the process of European Union is topical once again.
When I read the report and see the picture of the EU' s economy that is described there, I think it is quite a worrying picture.
This lack of infrastructure is also an obstacle to the establishment of companies and the creation of jobs.
Gentlemen, obviously the quaestors who look into this matter are not going to be basing their assessment just on information from radio programmes.
Secondly, we want to establish the fact that the manufacturer is liable.
The car industry - and Belgium produces a great many cars- did not have any problem with that.
A moment ago, Mr Vatanen spoke to us of lower temperatures, not of 20 degrees below zero, but of 40 degrees below zero.
The funding approved by the Council for the cultural programme does not do justice to the importance of cultural and educational policy and of this programme to the European Union' s goals.
Some of them have already lost several years' worth of harvests, but the 50% to 80% slump in sales is affecting all the harbours on the Atlantic coastline, and even those in the Channel and North Sea.
Thank you, Mr Bowe, for that question.
I regard this as absolutely unacceptable and would ask you to contact the British authorities in order to ensure that this does not happen again and that Mrs Lucas receives an apology. I have written to you in this respect together with my colleague, Mrs Hautala.
The reason is as follows: this issue concerns no less than 1 800 000 employees within the European Union.
I should, however, like to add that no new scientific knowledge was needed which proved that the experimental infection of sheep by feeding them BSE-infected feed produced a clinical expression of the disease which is indistinguishable from the symptoms of scrapie.
Only a public mail service can guarantee that information technology is within everyone' s reach in society.
Reading the precise and comprehensive explanations in the Theato report makes you realise just how many problems still need to be resolved and what these problems are.
The Council of Europe is coming before the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy on 22 March to speak about the research work that must be undertaken, particularly in the marine environment and, more precisely, the scientific and economic challenges of exploiting the oceans.
We also wish to point out that especially in areas with acute drought problems such as my own country, and especially on the islands, funding must be provided for infrastructure for the saving of water, by increasing not its cost but its quantity. This should mainly be carried out by collecting the rainwater that now goes to waste, running off into the sea and eroding the soil, with all the problems that creates.
I call on Members to ensure by their votes today or that we can put Europe on a sound footing for the short term, if not for the long term.
Will the Portuguese Presidency clarify its position on this matter?
This country has a very small market which, unfortunately, is often at the same time defined as the relevant market. This in contrast to Germany, where a very experienced Kartellamt is exercising its powers within a gigantic market.
Obviously, the cohesion policy exists for less-favoured regions and cooperation and joint action by the Structural Funds, the Social Fund and the Agricultural Fund exist for the cohesion policy.
However, the failure and suspension of payments of this type of undertaking would create a political, social and personal problem with incalculable consequences.
We still do not have a female president but, on the other hand, we have a queen, and that must no doubt, in certain contexts, amount to the same thing.
During the IGC I will have the honour of representing the Commission together with Mr Prodi and of working closely with your two representatives, Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos. All the Commissioners have undertaken to use some of their time when they go to any country or region, and not just their own, which in my case happens three or four times a month, to engage in direct dialogue with the public, and not just with the élite or those in power whom we meet as a matter of course.
In institutional terms, there has been no clarification of what role the EP is to play in the further development of the WIPO Treaties.
We are setting out a challenging and ambitious agenda for change.
Careful parliamentary scrutiny by the European Parliament but, above all, by the national parliaments, is therefore of key importance.
A common fisheries policy must coordinate as well as possible the requirements for conservation of species and resource management with economic and market requirements.
Mr President, I feel that this debate is particularly timely and appropriate, not just because development is in general an important issue, but because it is also a topical one.
Since the author is not present, Question No 13 lapses.
In a fortnight' s time, I shall be in Berlin.
There is therefore an urgent need to grant Parliament codecision rights in this respect and, as we have already said, to strengthen the principle of democratic control.
For our part, we remain staunchly opposed to the single currency which, far from bringing us the advantages and flexibility of a shared currency, imprisons us in an artificial straitjacket, which has been imposed on the peoples of Europe.
What are the Council's views on incorporating the Charter into the Treaty on European Union?
On the other hand, we think it is important - and this is also linked with the way in which the European Union relates to the heart of this matter - that an exchange of information between the Commission and the Cypriots in the north of the island should be encouraged. This would not, let me make this quite clear, imply any kind of formal recognition.
It demonstrates one of the main flaws in the European Union, a little-known, almost always implicit flaw, but one which goes a long way towards explaining our citizens' loss of interest.
My second question concerns the following matter. Some weeks ago, you were evidently misquoted in the German-speaking media, whereupon your press service put out a statement correcting matters.
I believe that the Commission' s proposal should make provision for greater transparency in terms of the way the various institutions function, but I think that there is always room for improvement in this matter.
Is there any procedure for suspending him from office until the judicial investigation into the accusations has been completed?
I can understand it when colleagues from countries which do not build cars advocate that manufacturers should pay the full whack and that they are not interested in the problem of distortions in competition when it comes to setting aside funds.
I am therefore glad that the Commission and the Council are once again taking an interest in the coherence of Community policies, and that, together with complementarity between national and Community policies and coordination between the services of the Commission, they intend to shape the policy on cooperation in accordance with the development of the European Union.
With regard to the four great priorities which President Prodi systematically refers to and with regard to his analysis of the challenges facing us, I would say that we are very much in agreement.
A month ago, the Commission submitted a proposal on equal treatment in employment, as prescribed in the Treaty, in order to implement Article 13.
We shall thus, in the course of the next five years, have a tool perfectly suited to developing clear, well-structured and, I am sure, successful measures in order to promote the cultural sector.
In fact, all hell broke loose in some municipalities in my province.
These are of course the returns after deducting all losses.
Thirdly, the Military Staff will represent senior military personnel from the fifteen countries. Together with myself, this staff will form the civil and military secretariat whose task will be to prepare, with the assistance of the Military Committee, any operation needing to be organised in due course in the context of crisis management within the European Union.
You say that you are against war, but you would not be the first warmonger to swear that.
Furthermore, I will not withhold my support but will endeavour, alongside my fellow MEPs, to bring about improvements and logical solutions within the framework of European and international cooperation.
I am glad Mr Monti, the Commissioner for competition, is here today in person, for he is pursuing an excellent policy.
I should also like to address two other points. We expressly welcome the regional classification of the status of Member States as regards outbreaks of scrapie or TSEs.
Cultural policy means, in particular, defending the role of the arts, recognising the role of authors and setting high cultural standards.
But, at the same time, we note that Great Britain and also Portugal are continuing to channel military aid to the government.
As this House indicated in its first resolution on 20 January, the needs of the severely affected fisheries, ostreiculture and tourism industries must be taken into account.
We have achieved nothing so far, and we have been unable to reach agreement within the European Union.
As for the argument that this initiative would increase uncertainty, very short-term capital movements are specifically intended to play on uncertainty and to bet on changes between currencies or various short-term financial assets.
The question is, therefore: what are the demands that a monopoly or part of a service which is governed by a monopoly needs to meet?
It is probable, therefore, that there is a lot of life out there, and much of it much more advanced than we are.
The OHIM is now in the process of arranging this and is expecting to move into the new premises by June.
When it comes to tourism, we can no longer do what we like where we like.
In conclusion, I would ask the Commission to take these five points into account when establishing the conclusions on the four pillars because I believe that, for the European Union, maintaining the population in rural areas must be one of the priority objectives.
And so long as people do not have equality before the law, this inequality will lead to discrimination and human rights will be eroded.
Congress never questioned where the people living in the area would have to move to or how relocation would impact on their lives.
These guarantee - making no claim to be exhaustive - a minimum of 3 things.
We need that because the various European Union bodies and all the Member States within monetary union have to be able to depend on one another.
This question needs to be resolved urgently.
Nor must it be a case of sitting and calculating the value of a human life over and against the cost of taking a particular measure.
This was appropriately described a few weeks ago as the First World War of Africa, given the involvement of certain countries in others.
Amendment No 3 brings into the ambit of the current regulation data of the kind needed to monitor changes in aquatic ecosystems.
The application of the framework agreement between the Palestinian authorities and Israel is also suspended at the moment.
These would, of course, be to the advantage of modern, progressive car manufacturers who think in environmentally friendly terms.
The fact is that the Commission has not amended the regulation for years, although Parliament has been calling for it to do so for some time.
We talk about the complexities of our eco-system but there is an eco-system of values and political institutions which is just as important and absolutely crucial if we are going to make life better for people in countries like Mozambique and make life better for people rather closer to home in the Balkans as well.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Schroedter, the rapporteur, for her work.
In this light, I think that the European Parliament' s role will be limited in Lisbon, but also in the forum in June for which we might have an invitation, but are unsure as to the input we can have.
We ally ourselves with demonstrations and international campaigns.
Because they have to face social obstacles. Because they never have time to deal with matters of public interest.
On the other hand, as the rapporteur points out, in the name of competition policy, public monopolies are often exchanged for private monopolies, with the privatisation of important industries and public companies, as has happened in Portugal, with harmful consequences for the country and its workers.
Companies must be able to anticipate and identify at an early stage what they need to do to ensure the continuity of their activities.
Throughout this conference, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only the status of the negotiators which is important, but the quality of what they will be saying.
One of the main problems is the lack of a functioning system of financial control.
For some years now the great powers have been reducing the amount of this already derisory aid, and it is the height of cynicism when this is done on the pretext of human rights violations or corruption.
I also refer to my explanation of vote of 18 November 1999 which clarifies my attitude towards supranationalism and common defence.
The truth of the matter though is that we believe - and this is also shown in the way the conclusions have been drafted - that the Commission must take account of what is adopted by this Parliament, particularly in the face of an interim revision of these directives.
The issue is whether the European dimension will become stronger or weaker as a result of being specifically integrated into the Treaties.
I have already told you on a number of occasions that we, on behalf of the Dutch contingency, would like a Dutch television channel.
It should be used for innovative projects and it should not completely disappear into the Finance Minister' s treasury funds.
This is not the usual state of affairs.
I would say to the Portuguese minister that I completely agree with her that what is at issue here is the fact that you cannot obtain equal rights without equal power.
I must also thank the Commissioner for being here and for her words.
We need competition if there is the least unemployment, for a smooth-running healthcare system, for social justice, for high social standards, and, of course, we also need - these are competition criteria to do with the economy - business management competition so as to achieve highest-quality products, equal market access conditions for all enterprises, and environmentally-friendly products.
Or on Shell?
Are there any comments?
I can show you a copy if you wish.
Globalisation on the one hand and enlargement on the other, make it urgently necessary to define those rights.
This is the hub of the administration which has to ensure efficiency and security.
The negative consequences are well known, the positive ones less so.
The Member States must also bear in mind their responsibility.
It is a retrograde step.
This applies today to no fewer than thirty conflicts worldwide.
As with all music it needs to be a fine tune and properly orchestrated.
The Union should make a tax pact, which any countries could initially be party to.
Denouncing a democratically elected politician as a Nazi does not make you an anti-fascist!
The Commission has not only to listen to Parliament and take into account parliamentary proposals but, as is well-known, must also deal with the Council.
Finally, in this time of natural disasters, I would just like to mention the issue of the use of Structural Funds.
This is a major issue because the Angolan State and authorities must assume their responsibilities. The international community and the European Union must spell this out very clearly.
I believe that measures that are proportionate to that objective is the way forward.
Mr President, the storms which devastated France during the night between 26 and 27 December have caused, as has been said, 90 deaths and damage to a value of FF 75 billion, i.e. EUR 11 billion.
They hold up Sweden as a warning, which might be appropriate in certain instances, but not as regards postal services.
Incomprehensibly, trade union representatives are also members of committees on competition, and I would not be surprised if union members were already members of OLAF, thereby placing this institution which should, at least formally, guarantee its impartiality, at great risk.
The Commission services set up a procedure for joint meetings and discussions with the Danish Government with a view to finding a common language and a common approach.
Admittedly, this reform is one of increasing flexibility rather than dismantling.
Thirdly, I understand very well that the health aspect of this matter is naturally important.
We can just as easily find out what happened from the newspapers.
The Commission suggests that Member States submit their reports within a time limit of two months following the end of each six-month period or, at least, annually, without the need for reminders.
This draft resolution was defeated by a Chinese no-action motion.
This is something that they prefer to avoid doing.
I hope that, at the end of the debate, when all the speakers have contributed, I will once again be given the opportunity to elaborate upon the different amendments.
The Commission therefore accepts Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3 and 5 proposed by the rapporteur, Mr Lechner.
85% of the work is within an hour of Maputo so we really have no idea what the extent of the problem is.
That service will open on 1 May this year.
In itself, globalisation is positive.
Mrs Ahern, we have taken note of this.
This procedure falls within the competence of the members of the group, and the matter will only be submitted to the Council if and when consensus is reached on the terms of this charter.
Today, in many Member States, that is not possible.
I am pleased that we have had this further opportunity to consider a number of areas in the world - Kosovo, Angola, Chechnya and Cambodia - where the protection of human rights has been a particularly severe challenge.
It shows a concern with the accounting involving own resources, the process of making them available or with the monitoring of declared amounts made available to the Commission.
EU legislation on this issue could not be clearer.
In its present form, the report will contribute to further liberalisation of the capital markets, in spite of the fact that what is most important is to restrain them.
When we have the chance to ask direct questions, the questions which Mr Böge referred to will be asked.
No doubt the Council could have been satisfied with a simple resolution recommending that Member States adopt national legislation to that effect.
This is the keynote idea on the new governance which we would have liked to have seen in your communication, Mr Prodi, but which is unfortunately not there.
We need to be sure that if need be, the country whose flag the ship is flying will accept liability.
It is absolutely absurd. Apart from anything else it is offensive, in my opinion, to the Greek MEPs and the citizens of Greece.
What does the Commission intend to do in order to ensure that Albanian Kosovars too can get to hospital?
Mr President, Mr Commissioner, the day before yesterday, there was a leading news item in the most popular Danish news programme, which I would ask you to comment on.
Naturally I completely endorse what they have said.
However, after verification it is precisely in this legal manner and specifically according to the post-Berlin Structural Funds Regulation that we must define and read the additionality principle.
We have seen the NOW project helping 70 women to return to work in Suffolk, many of whom were able to come and share the results of their experience directly with us at the European Parliament in Brussels.
History has taught us that Fascists start to blow hot and cold: using heated words first, in populist, xenophobic speeches, and then cool words in order to make themselves acceptable to institutions and to infiltrate them gradually, poisoning them, until the day they start to take action.
In Ireland all the major users of water, commercial, industrial and agricultural, already pay for their use of water.
Rebuilding infrastructure is crucial, because otherwise there can be no development. It is also time for some creditor countries to think about writing off or reducing Mozambique' s debts.
All the signs point towards a second round of attacks on Yugoslavia and this is confirmed by the KLA attacks on Serbs in Mitrovica, the attempt to annex three towns in southern Serbia to Kosovo, the promotion of the independence of Kosovo, the fact that two thousand men have been channelled into Kosovo via Greece, despite the objections of the Greek people and, at the same time, intense efforts by NATO and the European Union to overturn the legitimate government of Yugoslavia.
We need to protect this type of arrangement and denounce other things.
This is a true example of the Council' s indifference towards culture, despite its assurances to the contrary that it is a matter to which it attaches great importance.
There are enough other options in the present system to safeguard open markets and free competition.
Let me also remind him that when his party leader, Mr Hague, was Secretary of State for Wales, he broke every rule in the book on additionality which led to a stern letter from Commissioner Wulf-Mathies regarding regulatory requirements.
It has been suggested that the most important tasks of a future food authority will be to gather, publish and coordinate data, make recommendations for improved food safety, and - as you said - collect scientific data and popularise that information for consumers.
As far as the timetable and objectives are concerned, the Council' s objective is to achieve good quality surface water within 16 years of the entry into force of the directive, while the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy wants this reduced to 10 years.
With regard to the Judicial Network, significant progress has been made, in particular the launch at the end of 1999 of the dedicated telecommunications system of the European Judicial Network, whilst the Multi-disciplinary Group has developed a series of actions to implement the 1997 action plan.
Thirdly, we must look at the differences between the Headline Goal and what each country can provide.
The Leader programme at its core affords an opportunity for public, private and voluntary groups to pool their collective talents so as to create long-term and sustainable jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas.
Extremely few members of the Directorate-General for Development, that is to say unit managers and more senior managers, have taken part in the gender courses that have been organised.
The Union should use every means at its disposal to guard against counterfeiting.
On the one hand we ask applicant countries to take on board the environmental acquis and yet, at the very same time, the EU Member States are supporting and encouraging investment in those countries which is itself hugely environmentally damaging.
For about 10 years, the situation in the area has been fluid.
I would like to insist to the Portuguese Presidency that we must play a greater role, that it is time to take over and to secure greater participation for the European Union in this process.
As you know, as currently framed, Community legislation requires port authorities to carry out inspections on board all foreign vessels, including those flying flags of convenience, and to detain them if they do not comply with international standards.
Establishing a system of aids to this sector intended to ensure the survival of successful firms was therefore justifiable, even though Article 4(c), of the ECSC Treaty prohibited any sort of state aid to the steel industry.
I do not know what Syria and Israel will want or be able to do in reality, but I do know that our institution can do a lot and it is time that it attached the same importance to peoples' lives as it does to the ballasts of the cold, colourless, artificial neon bulbs in our lamps, which can illuminate houses but not the world in the third millennium.
It is precisely this type of car industry which we should be encouraging in the European Union.
However, it seems to go against all reason and intelligence that 80% of the anchovies, which, until 1995, were being fished in the Portuguese fishing grounds, through an agreement between that Member State - Portugal - and France, should now be fished in the Bay of Biscay and that the Council of Ministers wishes to maintain that this has no effect on the anchovy stocks in the Bay of Biscay or the Cantabrian Sea.
We will have an opportunity in due course to consider the exact terms of this agreement in greater depth, but meanwhile there is no doubt that the European negotiators were more timid and failed to live up to the proposals that we formulated at the appropriate time, even if the new agreement does include some new and innovative points.
However, I should also like to extend thanks to the various committees involved and Parliament as a whole for the broad support which they have given the LEADER+ initiative.
We might be mistaken in using the gross domestic product per inhabitant as the sole indicator.
Community policy in the field of water
If we fail to complete it, citizens in less favoured regions will dread enlargement.
Fifthly, we again call on the Spanish and French leaders and politicians to show the same tolerance as in the United Kingdom and Ireland in order to resolve the current Basque conflict with something more than police measures which, on their own, cannot bring about the peace which we all desire.
The Convention on Mutual Assistance and Criminal Matters, which we are examining today, is but a stitch in the great fabric of the corpus iuris of Europe, which has its natural foundation in fundamental human rights and freedoms.
Add to this the fact that he had to do this from his green approach and, against that background, find a compromise. That was not easy.
We therefore think that it would be more sensible to wait until the programme' s conclusion before carrying out the evaluation.
rapporteur.
Finally, I want to say that I attach great importance to making a start on phasing out discharges, emissions and leaks of hazardous materials and to the fact that we can do this gradually but, at the same time, be set a target, namely the year 2020 by which time we should hopefully have reduced such emissions to zero.
It is particularly important in the light of reports in the media that Europe is rapidly losing ground to the US in the hi-tech growth industries of the future.
Finally, there is currently still no European urban policy within the European Union. Perhaps this point could be developed in the context of reorganisation and the Intergovernmental Conference so that the European Union finally has a true urban policy.
Does that give me hope for the year 2000?
With regard more specifically to your question, I would like to highlight the fact that it only makes sense to have a new statute if it represents progress in comparison with the current situation and if it ensures that holders of identical posts are as far as possible treated in the same way.
The first is about the fight against poverty, which I think is becoming an embarrassment both for the EU and the Member States.
The information that I have is to do with the 1995 directive, which does not include any provisions of that kind.
Mr President, Commissioner, in the course of this pivotal year, prior to the changeover to the single currency, the Commission has deployed every effort to ensure the birth of the euro in a favourable environment.
Is one secure when freedoms are no longer guaranteed?
This could be developed and provide a large number of new jobs.
You founded and signed Charter 77, the human rights movement which represented and called for fundamental values during a dark period in the history of your people.
I would also like to thank her for her willingness to enter into dialogue with the other political groups when compromise formulas have needed to be reached in the face of this avalanche of amendments - and perhaps there are more of them than we expected - but which genuinely reflect the importance of the report we are now discussing.
During my six months as a Member of this Parliament, I have become acutely aware of the determination of many Members to drive forward what is described as the European project.
He is not always right, but in this case he is.
Standards in public life is the next main section of the report before the House.
We have a principle of transparency in Sweden which strengthens democracy and ensures that there is a worthwhile dialogue between citizens, decision makers and authorities.
I want to stress that it is extremely important to promote this specific initiative as quickly as possible, both for reasons of political timing and because we believe that it is important that it should begin as planned, in other words, we must be absolutely ready by the end of 2000.
One is knowing how the committees operate, about their composition, agendas, descriptions, and so on, and the other is the right of scrutiny over actual decisions.
The car industry, increasingly more respectful of the environment, has, I am sure, anticipated this kind of increasing awareness.
I must draw attention to the fact that the war in Angola is spreading to other parts of Africa.
I really think that people should be extremely cautious.
As far as we are concerned - I am responding to Mr Seguro who expressed concerns about this just now - we have not restricted ourselves to these three subjects, even though I do consider them as priorities, and consider that they must be dealt with now.
The situation as far as self-employed people are concerned is that current Community invested legal rights do not afford third-country nationals the right to provide cross-border services.
The old mindset which involved sweeping things under the carpet and protecting one' s friends unfortunately still exists.
As has already been pointed out, in one month' s time, 600 people and as many families could be deprived of their sole source of income.
It is difficult to understand, and we think the Commission would be well advised to look at it again.
I was unaccustomed to hearing this type of comment about the Roma in Europe.
It is only because there are people in need that we are prepared to overlook this.
The discretional power of the State, which you propose in point e of your Amendment No 10, seems to me to be inconsistent with the rest of your excellent report.
Mr President, Commissioner, if we manage this first step successfully, we will have gained a great deal.
Thank you too for sharing with us your telephone conversation with Mr Gil-Robles.
We must do this not only in line with basic humanitarian principles and out of solidarity, but also - and quickly - because we know that Mozambique is one of the poorest countries in the world. This means that its resources for coping with the tragedy and then setting about reconstruction are practically non-existent.
This objective was fully and formally expressed in the statement adopted by the General Affairs Council in Luxembourg on 8 April.
On 28 February 1998 the European political parties, including the Spanish Popular Party, signed the Charter of European Political Parties for a Non-Racist Society.
It is important to prioritise general criteria for land planning and demographic equilibrium, and to bear in mind the conclusions of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the five fundamental issues, which have been only partly taken up by the Committee on Transport, Regional Policy and Tourism in its points 16 and 17.
I am pointing this out because I believe that our support for the Commission also has to lead to continuity in the work carried out throughout the legislature.
Personally, however, I shall continue to fight against the extreme right, to urge people to sign a petition to demand measures which may go as far as the exclusion of Austria, and to organise a major public demonstration in Lille on Saturday at 3 p.m.
I urge the Commission not to keep having to be asked and to provide assistance for the victims of the storms.
If we have the merest suspicion that you are failing to safeguard the law of the European Union, and at present we have no cause for complaint - on the contrary we acknowledge that this is not the case -, but if European law is infringed then we shall fight any such infringement uncompromisingly, precisely because peace in the European Union is founded on this law.
Mr President, I am very glad that Mrs Randzio-Plath mentioned the very important context of our debate because up until now no other speaker has done so.
Madam President, as everyone has said, this is a very important day. It is the day of the first debate of European political life.
(SV) Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is my hope that Parliament is prepared now to make a decision to extend and strengthen the financial market in Europe.
This is the new element that we must help to bring to the Balkans.
Cyprus and Malta will thus become the victims of a political game between the Council and Parliament regarding the height of the ceilings.
The whole system will be more open and transparent - if still rather complex.
It is of great importance that, in our fellow MEP' s report, this European Parliament advocates a true European strategy of social convergence, based on what provisions have been made for employment via the so-called Luxembourg strategy, that is to say it should encompass common goals, guidelines, national action plans and performance evaluations.
Secondly, I have to say that the aim of the EQUAL initiative is not to reduce unemployment, it cannot possibly deal with the issue of reducing unemployment, or to support an increase in employment.
In addition to being Secretary-General of the Council, Mr Solana is also Secretary-General of the WEU, as well as High Representative for the Common Foreign and Security Policy. He also heads the Unity Policy Planning and the New Early Warning Unit.
Mr President, Commissioner, we hope the agreement can achieve all its objectives but we cannot delude ourselves that peace, stability and prosperity in south-east Europe can be achieved without dealing with the very wide-ranging problems we are trying to eliminate.
Social protection should be based on the principle of national and Community preferences.
In our contacts with senior political figures amongst the Kosovo Albanians, we have stressed - and the Portuguese Prime Minister did this very recently - that persecution of the Serb population, the Romany population and other ethnic groups is totally unacceptable.
The confidence of millions of Europeans cannot be won without being worthy of this.
Have you done so, Mr Prodi; have you even read your work programme for the year?
I would also say in relation to the questions surrounding labelling that this is a complex issue.
So there is a whole raft of contradictions.
Mr President, I also wish to congratulate Mr van Hulten on this first piece of work which he is presenting to the House.
I want to mention, as has already been mentioned by many speakers today, that tourism related to the natural and cultural heritage is expected to be the fastest expanding form of tourism in the EU during the next two decades.
- (DE) Mr President, the introduction of the euro and the further liberalisation of capital markets has already produced a larger and deeper European financial area, which is helping to open up markets and create price transparency, but also to increase competition.
That is precisely the time when you may, if you wish, raise this question, i.e. on Thursday prior to the start of the presentation of the report.
There are several reasons why the tourism industry is an ideal test-bed, therefore, for integrating job creation strategies.
The omission of this principal objective is highly revealing.
The same goes for the other countries, especially for the Palestinians, who are still living under military occupation and whose land even today is still confiscated in areas B and C, despite the Oslo Agreement and subsequent agreements. Between the period when the Oslo Agreement was signed and 17 October 1999, 174 000 dunams of land were confiscated, 8 462 of which have been taken under Mr Barak' s Government.
The Socialist Group has now changed its mind and this is why the report is not as clear as it would have been.
Mr Jonckheer, I would like to thank you just as warmly for your report on the seventh survey on State aid in the European Union.
At the same time, it also represents a quantum leap in qualitative terms, and a logical and vital step in the development of the Union, in the wake of the establishment of the internal market, the introduction of the single currency and the launching of a common foreign and security policy.
The areas identified by the Council are specific areas where policy coherence is particularly important, such as peace-building, conflict prevention and resolution, food security, fisheries and immigration.
Mr President, this is an important and urgent matter, and Parliament is complying with a request from the Commission to come to a decision quickly, because today, you must realise, men and women are dying in Kosovo quite simply because the temperature is 25 degrees below zero, these people are doing a great deal of work to ensure a minimum of maintenance and they have not been paid.
It is therefore clear that besides being a matter of general economic interest for Europe, tourism is a priority for the economic and social participation of the European Union' s regions.
Finally, if you consider the overall amount, which is on the small side, - EUR 2.8 billion for 15 Member States - and how ambitious the objectives are, I am afraid that all we shall succeed in doing is to prove that unemployment is a bad thing.
This, indeed, is the purpose of the sixth Steel Aid Code.
Clare Short, MP, is one of the few Cabinet-level Ministers for international development in the world and, as such, can take her case to the very heart of government.
Subject: Greek action plan for employment According to the findings of the evaluation of Action Plans for Employment, Greece and Italy are the main targets for criticism from the Commission for not properly carrying out employment support measures and policies.
This has since been unanimously approved.
As I said, Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, we are not in control of the procedure for drawing up the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
In my opinion, the directive solidly regulates the matter of accountability for how a car is disposed of in Europe.
Commissioner, Andalusia is not Lapland.
May I also venture to raise the matter of peat?
We are right to blacklist Haider' s Austria; but we cannot allow little local Haiders to practice policies of racial exclusion and merciless economic domination.
Thank you, Mr Poettering.
Safeguarding the social function of the market is what makes the difference between free trade, pure and simple, and a system for improving people' s quality of life.
Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like my fellow MEP, Bartho Pronk, please allow me to thank the Commission for this communication and, in particular, to congratulate our rapporteur for the work he has put into this report.
Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, on 22 February, ETA struck again in a brutal attack in Spain with the murder of Fernando Buesa Blanco, the General Secretary of the Socialist Party of Vizcaya and the spokesman of the Socialist Party of the Basque Parliament, and Jorge Díez Elorza, his bodyguard.
Would the High Representative be prepared to say to what extent this unit, which has been strongly supported by the committee of which I and Mr Titley are members, assisted in providing early information, analysis and an indication of the policy planning options open to yourselves?
In the first place, this new five-year programme will entail extending the actions in the ALTENER I programme. This will include extending the exchange of information and expertise between operators in the renewable energy sources sector, developing local and regional energy agencies, and establishing new networks for approving financial support, to name but a few examples.
Apart from amounting to interference, the statement by the Presidency is discriminatory because it authorises the penalisation of a population and denies these people their right to choose who to vote for.
Would you let me have these documents so that I can read them, after I have had them translated? I can then determine what they contain in terms of information and communication, which I can only welcome as the Commissioner for Regional Policy, and what is propaganda.
Paris is leaving its fellow-countryman completely in the cold with a handful of policemen, not more than 37, in the crisis region.
This sort of monopoly, which could lead, for example, to an increase in the price of feedingstuffs, should be prevented by granting provisional authorisation to all companies which had marketed a specific substance by 1 April 1998.
The Commission, however, though bound to issue guidelines, does so only reluctantly and in a vague manner.
Prevention education should begin early in the primary school curriculum in these countries.
You must therefore fight against the tendency of all institutions to try and increase their powers.
What is the point of having internal stability if the surrounding environment is unstable?
On the basis of this principle, human beings should always have the chance to redeem themselves.
Past experiences have sufficiently shown that early retirement schemes and voluntary redundancy schemes often have an undesired effect.
It is about brominated flame retardants.
We have already spoken to the Council so that it might include a Commission statement in its decision, establishing this element of conditionality.
I was in fact the surrogate father of these reports during the previous Parliament.
Perhaps this is a promising avenue to explore, but we must also explore others.
I think that we can all hardly wait to hear Mr Byrne' s reply.
It is, however, regrettable that the Commission has eschewed multiannual financing and decided instead to allocate funds on a yearly basis.
As the final text rightly states, actions such as these can play a role in reducing regional disparities.
At the end of the day, I honestly do not believe that this fear is justified.
In the case of the Balkans, just like everywhere else, one day the United States wants us to destroy the place and the next day they are asking us to rebuild it.
I did not hide behind any immunity.
Although it is laudable from an economic point of view to make structural changes in order to be more competitive and win market shares, this approach may be reprehensible if it is made at the request of financiers, often shareholders, with the sole unavowed aim of increasing the financial standing of the company in order to raise profits which they can then withdraw from the company.
The truth, of course, is that a great many Member States, and no doubt other nations too, have taken measures to protect their populations' health which amount to using the precautionary principle, even if it has not always been called that.
I should like to take advantage of your presence here today to ask you two questions of the "what is to be done" variety.
Rather than using the word 'enlargement' , I want to talk of reunification which has much greater political significance.
We are all aware how difficult it is to improve a legal framework for investment funds, and how difficult it is to construct the European passport for management companies around particular standards which are to apply even-handedly across the board.
We are therefore voting in favour of the recommendation.
They also play a major role in maintaining links between people.
There has, over this period, been no real progress on the Postal Services Directive.
As these transactions are generally not subject to prudential control, the risks are all the more obvious.
In the 21st century, the century of knowledge and the invisible economy, intellectual property will be the dominant form of property and will, in many cases, be more important than traditional property.
Report (A5-0022/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council decision providing exceptional Community financial assistance to Kosovo (COM(99)0598 - C5-0045/2000 - 1999/0240(CNS))
Ultimately, we also need to achieve better cooperation, of course, between the European Court of Auditors and its national counterparts.
How have these been organised by Mr Solana' s office and how has the initiative been coordinated with the Commission?
The Erika disaster must be the last in the series.
Mr President, I wanted to point out an important matter of principle.
This report contains general points on what is referred to as the urban regeneration strategy for town centres and neighbourhoods affected by the crisis in the capitalist economy and its consequences, i.e. increasing unemployment, exclusion and delinquency.
The point is: does the political will exist to grant real administrative autonomy to this mechanism, which will cover the entire spectrum of Petersberg decisions?
Madam President, I would also like to welcome the Commission' s initiative of presenting us with a report on its strategic objectives for the next five years, although I hope that it intends, in subsequent documents, to avoid the excess of generalisations and the vagueness of the text which we are examining today.
Obviously, this inhibits competition and innovation and restricts the public' s range of savings options.
Question No 38 by (H-0805/99):
The extent of the damage caused on this occasion was determined by the population density, the type of infrastructure, and, of course, the many monocultures, if we are talking forests.
The Netherlands, Finland and Sweden have travelled furthest along this road.
Moreover, I wonder at the reduced guidelines to which the Commission wishes to restrict LEADER+.
The problem which we have to deal with is how to change the composition of the decision-making centres.
We are losing market share.
Finally, during any new trade round the EU and the ACP states should press jointly for a reform of GATT Article 24 in order to explicitly provide regional non-reciprocal trade agreements between structurally and economically dissimilar groups of countries.
This is a moral interest, a safety interest and is, ultimately, even in the interest of our economy.
I do not agree.
Secondly, like him, I think that we should not promote excessive concentration in funds which, in the final analysis, will prove to be a Trojan horse for American pension funds.
The promotion of scientific development and new technologies and access for all to these technologies will not be provided by the market or competition. The latter will also not ensure the social proximity and effectiveness of the main community services of health, education, transport, communications, water and whatever else.
These issues have clearly been holding up progress on the permanent status negotiations, although, I believe, these talks will not be held up indefinitely.
What other practical measures will it take to put a stop to ethnic cleansing?
I hope that the forthcoming visit by the President of the European Parliament to the region, as well as the presidents of the relevant interparliamentary delegations, will begin an era of greater initiative and a greater presence for the European Union in this complicated and difficult peace process.
I have also tabled a resolution on this subject on behalf of the EDD Group.
These concerns must be looked at while setting up the programmes.
It is just such practical cooperation there is a need for.
The European Union could not substitute itself for the mining company for any compensation payments due.
Lastly, the recommendations also incorporated an updated version of the proposals in President Delors' White Paper on the promotion of a European project for the development of a common network of infrastructures and services.
Mr Patten has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
I hope that the decisions taken at Helsinki lead to progress on the Cyprus issue.
Report (A5-0069/1999) by Mr von Wogau, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission White Paper on modernisation of the rules implementing Articles 85 and 86 of the EC Treaty (COM(1999)0101 - C5-0105/1999 - 1999/2108(COS))
Mr President, first of all, I am pleased that the Katiforis report takes into consideration the multitude of factors responsible for the deterioration of the marine environment: pollution, unsupervised fishing, drilling platforms and pressure from the increasing use of coastal areas for urban development are potential sources of widescale damage to the environment in both coastal areas and offshore, and fishing is also a victim of this situation.
When our rivers flooded in 1990, we established that installing artificial works upstream affects the water-storage capacity downstream and can cause a great deal of damage.
Secondly, the doctrine of human rights must no longer be exploited, as it is today, as an instrument of ideological warfare in the hands of a cast which claims the right to decree unilaterally who is to be the arbiter of human rights and who is to be deprived of those rights, thereby denying the legitimacy and, if need be, the freedom of those whom the party line has deemed politically incorrect.
Question No 8 by (H-0796/99):
As the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs stressed in its opinion, the Commission must therefore recognise the need to exploit synergies in this context while avoiding duplication of multiple funding.
We note, first of all, that the committee considers the data, as presented in the Commission' s annual report, to be in too aggregated a form to enable an in-depth evaluation of state aid policy which is simultaneously legitimate, sensitive to national interests and extensive in terms of compliance with the rules of competition, pursuant to the actual terms of the Treaty.
I think it is a very serious matter that we act in this way.
On the subject at hand, I think that the people of Europe must be able to be confident that the goods - however dangerous they are - which are transported on Europe's roads, railways, and so on are as safe as possible.
Ladies and gentlemen, there are often objections, crypto-progressive objections, as to whether there should be a binding undertaking on the representation of women at the centres of power.
It can be explained by the feeling of helplessness of the people who are the victims of the ideology of mighty Mammon and by the choice of the ruling classes to promote strong government in order to take their policies of austerity and deregulation ever further.
Before the vote
I believe - as I think we all do - that Portugal, its former president, Mr Soares, and its government, maintained a cautious and middle-of-the-road stance during the bombings in the Balkans.
They will take a long time, as we are finding out.
The actual appropriations available for LEADER + compared with LEADER 2 are smaller despite their increase by 15% (from EUR 1 775 million for LEADER 2 to EUR 2 020 million for LEADER +).
The real priority for the European continent is to establish an operational level within a European framework and not a global framework as proposed by the rapporteur.
Finally, in order to avoid health being treated in any way as a commodity, the European Union should declare itself clearly opposed to pension funds and to a situation where private insurance companies have access to the health system.
This is why we are voting in favour of this resolution in spite of its hypocritical references to a 'European democratic model' which bears more resemblance to a fortress which tracks downs, expels and imprisons immigrants without the proper papers, when it is not opening files on teenagers.
Creating UCLAF by means of the Task Force and setting up the anti-fraud office OLAF were important steps, as was the regulation on protecting the financial interests of the Community and on local monitoring.
Mr Alavanos, I see that you have thrown to your left all the documents which you have just cited.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Böge' s report on measures to prevent TSE diseases is based on the proposals of the European Parliament' s temporary BSE Committee.
However, in order to compensate for this, all possible obstacles must be removed before the service provision card is issued, and as the Commission' s proposal would have it, more stringent conditions must be satisfied before a service provision card is issued.
The European Commission has monitored the environmental effects of the conflict from the beginning of the NATO action.
In this respect, I would like to say something about the excellent idea put forward by Mrs Riis-Jørgensen and Mr Huhne of monitoring implementation.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report which I have the opportunity to propose to you today is an opinion on the Commission' s Annual Report on the state aid in force within the European Union and for which the Community is authorised under Articles 87, 88 and 89 of the Treaties.
The promotions procedure must be made fairer and more transparent.
As I have said, we need hard and fast rules if we are to have fair trials in Europe - without intrusion from interceptions, without the illicit use of video conferences - because we in Europe should no longer have trials run by magistrates who play politics rather than administer justice, and because punishment should be meted out to the real perpetrators of crime and not to innocent people who someone finds inconvenient.
Mr President, the Socialist Group supports the Commission' s efforts to implement the action plan for financial services.
This would make our rapporteur' s life considerably easier in the future.
It is indeed the case that globalisation of national economies, but above all the introduction of the euro and the associated stability pact have led to a situation where we need to do more than analyse decision-making processes.
Europe has a duty to make its voice heard as an alternative to savage restructuring for profit at all costs. Without doubt, the voice of difference in this monotonous flood of restructuring.
Instead, you have to mobilise working people and the people out there in the Member States.
All this, in exchange for the promise of future accession to the European Union.
I want to thank you, Commissioner Monti, for your outstanding cooperation and I want to tell you that, as we enter the new millennium, you have an especially important role.
Furthermore, the recent Community budget cuts in this area, for the present financial year, are part of this trend, as well as sending an undesirable and misguided political message.

I hope that, in terms of the degree of cooperation and partnership that we can enjoy in all aspects of this policy with the Council and with Parliament, not only will we get rapid implementation of policy development in the most effective way, but that we will be able to do it by coordination at the right time which will produce the maximum benefit for the Union.
Hopefully, the stands Parliament has taken will help, however, in the mid-term appraisal of the programmes and in their practical implementation.
In fact, does the European Union have a human rights policy?
Amendment No 33 is ambiguous regarding 'the language' of the guest member state, especially when there are various official languages, and it is questionable what will be gained from translations in two other languages.
You are having to defend a certain Mr Schüssel, you are having to consort with Schüssel as he is today and who, as I understand it, was recently told not to come to the representatives of the Christian Democratic party' s summit meeting.
A5-0007/2000 by Mrs Berger, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on a proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the posting of workers who are third-country nationals for the provision of cross-border services (COM(1999)3 - C4-0095/1999 - 1999/0012(COD));
It is about co-operating on joint projects and about unifying forces on all sides.
The deadline by which it had to answer the Commission' s questions expired on 6 December 1999 and we have not received a reply.
I ask for the Member's understanding for this small delay in the Commission's decision.
I have indicated the conditions under which the Commissioners will play their part through public meetings and visits.
This will dramatically change the way it operates.
Every year, we discard a huge amount of cars which contain many dangerous substances.
We need more explanation of what Europe is about.
The wish to reach a unanimous decision can lead to compromises which do not stand this test.
When, on the other hand, the decision has been made to take a certain measure, the one chosen ought to be cost-effective so that there is in fact no resort to measures which are wholly unreasonable given their degree of effectiveness.
(Applause)
The current situation is not good.
We must of course pay for wastage and luxury use at domestic level and the recovery of costs can be balanced accordingly.
I believe that no country, no government and, of course, no member of this Parliament can fail to recognise the need for this directive in order to end the current fragmentation of water policy and facilitate the implementation of a programme of specific measures for each river basin.
Put more strongly, in the long term it is possible that for large numbers of funds, the Tobin tax will be evaded by shifting foreign exchange rate transactions to off-shore tax havens.
The debate is closed.
Amendments Nos 13, 28, 32, 37, 42 and 48 involve introducing unnecessary conditions and exceptions.
Even today, surely it is high time for the Party of European Socialists to break their fraternal links with China' s Communist Party.
For example, I am prepared to give seminars on leadership or other subjects myself to encourage women to take on further tasks within the Commission.
In all other cases that have not been specifically addressed, we feel that the reference made in Recital 13 should be sufficient.
I have less hope about the development of an effective and fair European policy in accordance with the statement made by the Council on immigration.
In terms of the people who build cars here in Europe, I am in favour of not making competition unequal but, in terms of environmental protection, I want freedom from costs for the last owner, to be financed by a special fund, and manufacturer responsibility for new cars, which will force them to assume responsibility for building recyclable cars!
I have received seven motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to Rule 37(2) of the Rules of Procedure.
The Commission report confirms that, with the exception of Germany, state aid to businesses is increasing.
The Commission will need the full support of Parliament if we are to achieve our ambitions on schedule.
It may have been our weakness and lack of credibility which led to the war.
As I said earlier, our ambition is total security for money and value for money.
That being the case, in the absence of complete labour mobility inside the Union, and without a redistributive fiscal policy at federal level, it is left to the labour markets and welfare systems to provide what degree of flexibility there is to remedy both structural and economic disequilibria, the so-called exogenous asymmetric shocks.
May I repeat that on Monday he will be available to the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism of Parliament.
Mr Désir too has mentioned this growing interest on all sides.
The levels of employment are different and this is why it is very important to set the ball rolling gently but to make steady progress nonetheless.
In this way, we would have no problem in acting immediately. We would not create problems for the Kosovar people, but, on the other hand, we would force the other donors to make their financial contribution in the way that we are doing.
That is why it is very important for the Intergovernmental Conference to take important decisions and to cut free so that the European Parliament' s efforts to create a meaningful cultural impetus within the European area may be rid of this constraint by all the governments.
Once again, towards the end of this year, the Commission will forward a report on the state of affairs on excise taxes, and I am obviously available for any discussion with Parliament on that report.
Will the Council treat it as a document that it has to accept as it stands, or will the Council feel free to amend that document?
We await a proper response from the Russians.
Since, in this case, transport costs are high, a system will have to be introduced which will need to be very much decentralised, because transporting an end-of-life vehicle over a distance of more than 100 km is not a profitable activity.
We must put an end to this.
It is my belief that we should await the final outcome of Directive 90/220 and in particular, Article 11.
Finally, I would like to reiterate that Mr Di Pietro has, in my opinion, delivered sterling work by submitting a report which, within the limitations, offers all possible guarantees for safeguarding individual human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Do we imagine, then, that the cost would disappear if we were not to adopt this directive?
My conclusions about this differ completely, however, from those of the previous speaker.
There is a saying that the dead tell no tales and I am sure they do not eat fish but I do and I look forward to the implementation of this report.
In all such cases, however, strict criteria must be met and prior approval from the European Commission gained.
Mr President, a journalist is on a fact-finding mission and this calls for freedom.
What I can say is that I hope that this building will now be occupied as soon as possible.
If it is higher than at the previous elections, it will mean that we have successfully met our challenge.
Mr President, Commissioner Byrne, under Directive 70/524, high-technology additives are treated differently, depending on the date of authorisation.
Conditions are ripe.
Having mentioned the fundamental points of agreement between the Commission' s proposals and Parliament and, having stressed my great interest in hearing the various contributions, I should like to answer a few of the criticisms and a few of the suggestions which have been made, with apologies if I cannot attribute each of the questions to the speakers by name.
To my mind though, what is particularly important about the ALTENER II programme are the new actions for relieving market saturation by renewable energies and those for implementing, supporting and monitoring the Community strategy and the Community action plan.
This infectious salmon disease is caused by an orthomixomicrovirus which breaks down the blood of salmon, causing death.
That is unacceptable in a democracy.
This transparency is also very important for the unions, for how can a union official who has to represent his members in a private company compete with a union official who has to represent his members in the postal service?
If we do things properly, this may well be a first taster of a genuine common foreign and security policy.
It may seem ironic that this statement should come from someone in his position, but he did indeed say this, and I heard it with my own ears.
I hope that in his pursuit of dialogue around the regions of Europe, Commissioner Barnier will expand upon that thought and learn from what he hears.
The debt burdens of the private sector and the corresponding excessive inflation of Stock Exchange securities, the two main market stability indicators, have, for some time, been at danger levels, as the Commission report on the economic situation in Europe clearly illustrates.
I believe that some people do not even know what UCITS stands for.
We congratulate you.
Why not institute an oil boycott against Sudan, where a great deal of the fighting is still going on, with weapons, no less, funded by the oil companies which are based in the same areas where the refugees are?
Regarding information and training, in the past this budget line has been allocated for information, communication and training.
My country' s place is not outside the European Union but in it ...
What has been done about training?
Racist and xenophobic incidents in El Ejido (Spain)
The same applies to labour market policy.
Since we are talking about the Intergovernmental Conference, let us consider just two points.
In contrast to how things are done here in the European Parliament and in Parliament' s committees, where rapporteurs are nominated and appointed to produce reports, there are no regulations whatsoever applied within this delegation to the Joint Assembly. The two large groups share all the reports and consultative documents etc between themselves.
When I read Mr van Hulten' s passage about personnel policy, I am afraid that Parliament may again be failing to tackle the crucial issues and just spouting a lot of hot air.
There is nothing so closed as a closed mind.
Apart from reducing the volume of exports from these countries to the Community market, what we term 'development aid' to the ACP has fallen constantly, from 70% of total European Union aid in 1986 to 30% in 1998.
It is clear, of course, that in many ways the really hard work starts now, with the implementation of our proposals.
Mr President, I congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
The Culture 2000 programme was finalised at the end of last year as a result of conciliation between Parliament and the Council.
This Parliament has been given more authority, so let us use it!
I would also like to support Mr Titley' s comments on an effective role for the Parliament in this whole area.
The Commission' s proposal makes a distinction between derivatives dealt in on regulated markets and derivative instruments not dealt in on regulated markets (so-called OTC derivatives).
For example, whilst the disparities between the regions have increased rather than decreased, there has been a certain amount of convergence between the Member States themselves in this respect.
The Portuguese presidency has made great progress in establishing a series of provisional or interim bodies.
Secondly, will this not compound the problem of over-regulation from Brussels and under-implementation in the Member States?
Recent events have shown us that these regulations are essential.
The fundamental problem is that, at the moment, the distribution of the burden amongst the different donors has been established in the statements of the High Level Steering Group, but it is also true that they have no legal status. This is simply a political commitment.
You might have added, Mr Solana, 'to give me their instructions' , because that is what we see, in fact.
An environmental policy agreement has been signed on a voluntary basis.
We must work more rapidly towards achieving the targets stipulated in the White Paper for renewable energy sources, as this would bring about a massive reduction in greenhouse gases.
Some environmental experts have put the environmental consequences of this disaster, at least so far as damage to the ecosystem is concerned, on a par with Chernobyl.
At this time when we are voting on a joint resolution against the inclusion of neo-Nazis in the government of a European Union Member State, I must express my regrets regarding a compromise text which is particularly lacking in backbone.
On the basis of the experience gained over the past eight years, an attempt is being made to increase the effectiveness of action on behalf of the environment in the third development phase of that financial instrument.
We must work to ensure that, in this province and indeed throughout the Balkans generally, the rule of shopkeepers follows the rule of the warlords.
Just you go home and say: " we have not concerned ourselves with standards to date" .
.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, at the time of our vote on your appointment we invited you to come here today.
You also know that this will not only be a short-term problem, but also a medium and long-term one.
That explains why this instrument must live up to our ambitions, ambitions for which, of course, there is a price.
We wish to emphasise that the sphere of social and social security policy should chiefly be the domain of the Member States, even if the enlargement of the EU requires a greater degree of coordination than there has been in the past.
In practice that means the following for the postal services: firstly, priority must be given to employment.
The Commission regards this as significant although we do not believe that this is the basic problem.
What is all-important, to my mind, is that the bodies we are financing should achieve what we want them to achieve, a multi-ethnic Kosovo that is, a Kosovo where people can live together.
Another issue concerns the economies of countries involved in enlargement, which may run the risk of remaining assisted economies for ever more if provision is not made for gradual adjustment.
They urgently need aid such as food, water and shelter in order to survive.
Secondly, we welcome the solidarity between the French departments and citizens, and the solidarity of other countries with France, which is the country worst affected.
According to the Commission' s proposal -20ºC would have been sufficient. On the shores of the Mediterranean, it is hard to imagine that in Lapland temperatures can fall considerably lower than that.
Our group is reviewing a few amendments that were rejected by the committee.
It therefore seemed essential to make good this omission in order to achieve the standardised, high-level training of safety advisers, but also in order to avoid any disparities between the costs of training, with a concomitant effect on competition between the firms of different Member Sates.
We want a colourful Europe.
That is naturally unacceptable.
We will, in conclusion, vote against this report, while stressing that the Europe to which we aspire is a Europe of rights and guarantees: rights and guarantees that call for gradual and responsible discussion, as well as very serious examination.
It is extremely important that the two European institutions involved in these negotiations, the Commission on the one hand and Parliament on the other, alongside the Council members, explain clearly to the citizens of the Union continually, every day, what the issues of this conference are and what responses we advocate in our capacity as European institutions responsible for ensuring both the proper operation of this enlarged Union and the common interest.
My second point regarding the policy is as follows: the Structural Funds have made, and continue to make, a significant contribution to the convergence process.
Mr President, we are having a major debate on a text of very little substance. The basic document is really no more than a Commission communication which embraces the conclusions and recommendations of a high level group on tourism and employment.
Eventually, standards were drawn up for only a dozen or so substances.
We will raise that, too, in the representations we make.
And what exactly should be done?
It is clear that is not acceptable.
I would nevertheless like to say, with regard to the rights of the child, that we consider this to be an extremely topical issue, particularly for the Council of Europe and in view of the existence of a set of relevant international texts to which we have signed up.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Fischler.
I am referring ,of course, to the statement made by the Commission on 1 February 2000, the basic elements of which I would like to restate.
It is equally important not to lose sight of the Iraq question, which no one discusses anymore, thereby relegating the problems of millions of women, elderly people and children, the victims of an embargo as arrogant as it is wicked, to oblivion.
Some people will say that perfection is not a realistic aim, but a brief look at the background should make our reservations more understandable to them:
This agreement can and must become an example to the other countries in the region.
I would like to say, with regard to Mr Swoboda' s comments on the activity of the CEN, that we are urging them to speed up their work as much as possible because it would be terrible if, despite the new deadline, we were to find ourselves after a year and a bit with the same difficulties because their work has not been concluded.
Corinne Caillaux, who had probably been raped, was found with her throat cut and covered in stab wounds in the lavatories on the train.
By means of this report, Parliament wishes to make its contribution to reinforcing the social dimension of European society.
The adoption of the White Paper marks the end of a chapter of history - and I hope that it will remain closed forever.
Mr President, I would like to point out that I voted for this report on sustainable urban development, known as URBAN.
This project is not so much a project of the institutions as a project of the citizens of our common Union.
It is not without some amusement that we have seen you, in your pathetic rivalry with Mr Patten, present this delightful and most charming argument: one day you told a German newspaper, "I am the one that the Americans phone up" .
Storms in Europe
This is why we will most probably grant the discharge tomorrow.
It also appears in a range of international texts, for example, the Rio Declaration and most recently the Bio-Safety Protocol.
In other words, the Council has not succeeded in giving this text a credible legal basis.
The Leader III scheme is set to be implemented some time later this year.
Parliament has completed the agenda.
Such a rule is only normal.
I am about to lose patience at not having received an answer from him but I will send you this when I get it.
Of course they do, but they are not unlimited.
We all know what we would do, which is why we need a tight timetable for our water policy.
The debate is closed.
So I believe the best way to tackle the causes is by ensuring, on the one hand, that good governance is observed in the countries in question and that, on the other hand, there is more supervision nationally and internationally in order to avoid these lapses.
In the next resolution on the IGC, Parliament must take a long and hard look at the questions of differentiation and flexibility.
Press freedom in Angola
The regulation pretends that there is one, but there is not.
We have put down an amendment to that effect.
I say this in case there is any doubt about the criticisms which we have directed at the Commission in general, and Mr Monti, in particular, for its persecution of the incentives to Basque companies and the fact that it considers them to be state aid.
We must therefore act.
Yes, e-Europe will be the future for us because it will help us create new prosperity and new jobs.
On the other hand, the way that the issue of the end of the protocols and the pre-accession strategy has been addressed so far creates some doubts for us.
Today, we ask the Commission to start by protecting the workers at Goodyear in Cisterna, and therefore to put as much pressure as possible on the company for it to come to an agreement as soon as possible, thereby ensuring the continued existence and operation of the Cisterna plant.
Now the financial statement shows only EUR 613 million to cover more countries and competences.
I know that the Commissioner himself has some strong and extremely reasonable opinions on coherence, and these are what I should like to have heard expressed here today.
In this, their second report, the experts tell us that Italy is financed by the Cohesion Fund, that the ERDF and the Social Fund represent two-thirds of the Structural Funds and that the principles of additionality and complementarity in the Structural Funds come to the same thing. They tell us that the farming lobby is forcing us to finance rural development through the EAGGF-Guarantee and that the principle of partnership only applies to the Commission and to the Member States.
We recognise that means discipline on the part of Commission officials and we recognise also that we have a responsibility within Parliament on discipline when we talk about negative priorities.
II. the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Directive 85/611/EEC on the coordination of laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities (UCITS) with a view to regulating management companies and simplified prospectuses (COM(1998) 451 - C4-0465/1998 - 1998/0242(COD))
I want to make it quite clear that in this specific case I personally consider the Commission' s proposal to be wrong and feel that it remains to be seen as to whether we are truly justified in using the term "modernisation" to describe the content of Articles 81 and 82 of the White Paper, or whether in this case it would be more appropriate to use the expression "retrograde step" .
However, it was withdrawn from the Committee on Budgets last night without being discussed or voted on.
We need proper information, given in a proper way and we all have to take this whole process a lot more seriously than in the past.
I would like to second what the previous speaker had to say.
For if there is only one letter box left in the inner city of Munich where the mail is collected again in the evening, that reflects a rapid decline in quality, while at the same time prices are sometimes rising, which is something else we must note.
I think that he is correct in this regard.
Everyone is free to hold such views.
We share them.
Amendment No 42 relates to a provision which was not changed by the proposal and which has not caused any problems since the implementation of the directive.
The issue is therefore one of appropriate structures.
We discovered during the meeting that the lovely white curtain behind you, Mr President, in fact conceals a huge window which, if the curtain were drawn back, would afford a wonderful view over the river.
And let me assure you, furthermore, that when the Commission adopts the guidelines with what we call the mid-term review in mind, in line with the regulations, then the point of view of this House, as expressed in this report, will also be taken into account.
The Commission gives its full support to the efforts being made in this area and is continuing its investigations into whether specific measures can be implemented in the environmental field.
However, the Liberal Group has not wanted to close the door to a new analysis of this issue and, therefore, we have accepted a joint motion for a resolution proposing that a study be carried out on the possibility and suitability of imposing this tax on certain areas of international capital movements.
This time, however, it is true.
If reforms are not got under way, we are in danger of eroding the economic basis of social policy, and a strong and competitive economy is now undoubtedly the most secure basis for effective social security.
It is an excellent report and we should all congratulate her on it.
The report gives very adequate protection for consumers.
Much of what concerns us today is the outcome of fundamental processes of transformation in all parts of the world since the late 1980s.
I also want to comment on the question as to whether there is to be any retroactive legislation.
I think it is very important that we should investigate what kind of stereotypes the media establish.
In this speech, I will confine myself to addressing certain points I consider fundamental.
Some areas within the European Union are economically very strong and heavily exceed the average income per capita.
What is more, the agreement on the protection of financial interests and the two subsequent protocols signed by the European Council in 1995 did nothing to change this.
We must therefore try to reconcile the two requirements - Parliament is sometimes a little extremist, adopting positions that are either extremely pro-green or extremely anti-green - and, all things considered, find a way to combine the effort made by Mr Florenz and that of other Members, who are trying to reconcile the two positions as best as possible.
The body then makes recommendations with a view to maintaining stocks.
Externalising services by subcontracting these to contract companies results in stable and permanent jobs being turned into precarious jobs without union or social rights.
The European Commission' s decisions, which feature in the report, are welcomed by the European Parliament, as is the decision to ask for the money back in specific cases, thus applying Article 88 of the ECSC Treaty.
In connection with this, we have noticed how - quite contrary to what has been said here to the effect that the scheme would be to the detriment of employment - a number of small businesses have taken the recycling of materials to heart and are doing very well.
Subject: Drafting of the Charter of Fundamental Rights The general public welcomes the fact that a Charter of Fundamental Rights is to be drawn up. It is also to be hoped that it will meet the challenges of Europe in the 21st century.
Commissioner Fischler, of course, knows me from a long time back and I have written to him on BSE and many other issues in agriculture but now that he is responsible for fisheries I am going to have to berate him on fisheries, along with his lusty colleagues, because one of the areas that has been most affected has been my region and the fishermen of Northern Ireland.
I am sure that your answer to this will be "yes" but I would be grateful if you could tell me if these gentlemen are also aware as to what the consequences of this will be?
All this should make it possible for us, apart from the Objective 1 appropriations and also with them, to confirm the role of 'active frontier' of the Union.
I have just been writing a report before I came to this job, and writing a very good report, just to respond to my honourable friend, on policing in part of my own country.
We are not as enthusiastic about compromising as Mrs Frassoni.
I wish insistently to remind the Council and, should it be necessary, Parliament, that we should not continue to allow a gap to develop between our rhetoric and what we are actually capable of doing.
We should also acknowledge the efforts which Mr Solana is making towards achieving a more effective, visible and coherent Common Foreign and Security Policy for the European Union.
At the same time, it must be made clear that aid can serve a useful purpose, with a view to offsetting the deficiencies of the market and furthering Community objectives.
We also hope that the European Parliament will be able to examine this issue with equal promptness when it comes before this House under the codecision procedure.
Scotland also has many island communities, some of which can be reached by air but most of which depend on sea ferries.
There is also another important aspect which I referred to at the beginning of my statement, and this relates to Turkey' s role in helping the north of the island to prepare for accession.
Through the European Agricultural Guarantee and Guidance Fund, the EAGGF, this Community support framework is designed to help reverse the trend of abandoning rural areas, an issue you are quite right to raise.
There again, it is simply not possible to change situations once and for all with a few strokes of the pen, and the problems begin as soon as we have to start talking about implementation and getting down to brass tacks.
I have a lot of sympathy with that protest.
Decisions have been taken by the Council with a great sense of responsibility.
The swift action taken by this Parliament must be seen by all citizens as their greatest guarantee for the future, for you have set an agenda on food quality to which Member States must conform.
This is because it is essential to achieve two things: the European model of multifunctionality in agriculture must be secured, and this must be done in a way which facilitates the liberalisation of world trade in agricultural products, mainly to the benefit of developing countries.
Our heritage has taught us that politics must have a heart.
I hope that what we have said so clearly and vehemently here today will also be reinforced in the Commission documents.
At the same time, it also wishes to acquire Cadou type reactors from Canada, which we now know have already been used for nuclear weapons in Pakistan and India.
Competition is an instrument and does not always produce ideal solutions.
I wish you every success, President of the Council, in making sure that the European Council agrees to this agenda and that on Valentine' s Day when you start off the IGC it will be under good auspices and you will bring it to a good conclusion, also when the French Presidency takes over, by the end of this year.
This approach and its scope, which the Commission can in principle approve, are defined by Amendments Nos 22 and 47.
Turning quickly to the section of the resolution on fighting fraud, corruption, mismanagement and nepotism: the major new proposal of the report concerns reporting by Commission officials of perceived wrong-doing.
In the coming weeks, I shall be making a tour of capitals to sound out the opinions of the various ministers for justice and home affairs.
I would also like to point out that when it comes to keeping the peace, it will require a much greater effort to get a great many more people on board.
It has been said more than once: justice delayed is justice denied.
This is a responsibility that the European Union takes very seriously, Mr Posselt, and I would like to mention that, at the General Affairs Council held on Monday, this issue was repeatedly stressed when we were discussing Kosovo.
We are at a watershed in the history of the European Union.
This issue is extremely topical.
That is why I think that this is quite positive from Portugal' s point of view.
I am talking about the integration of the policies of the culture industry in this area of training and culture; they create jobs.
During the budgetary procedure we were told that the funds for Kosovo must be voted on as a matter of urgency yet, according to our information, no invitation to tender has been published or initiated to date.
The European Union is a system based on law.
We are all familiar with the much-criticised price hikes, and delayed deliveries are a constant topic of discussion.
It also means that, when we are fighting these diseases, the problem of destroying whole herds in the event of an outbreak of scrapie or BSE and the question of defining geographical areas are items which also remain on the agenda.
Strict compliance with the Stability Pact can thus contribute to a culture of stability within all EMU Member States.
In this respect, Mr Bolkestein, the motion for a resolution cannot be separated from the issue of the Tobin tax.
We want to develop a Community immigration policy which takes account of the Member States' capacity to absorb immigrants and we need to extend the operational powers of EUROPOL, for example, so that specific steps can be taken to combat organised crime.
Post office outlets in Scotland, as we have heard, handle much more than just mail delivery.
I hope to see if something can be put in place to get us a faster response from the court process.
I salute these joint efforts to repair the damage.
Marinho Report (A5-0003/2000):
As for us, we our bound by the terms of the texts: a maximum of four months.
We need the Member States and the citizens in the Member States to be properly informed.
This is the basis of my request to the European Commission and the services of this House.
We look to the Commission to deal with points in relation to additionality.
In particular, we intend that the European Union should maintain a constant profile on this issue, and of course all the more so since Cyprus is a candidate for membership of the European Union with negotiations at a fairly advanced stage. This naturally raises certain expectations and means that the role of the European Union is of some relevance in this context.
In recent months, since the last time I appeared before you, important events have occurred in this House and also in the European Union. I would remind you of two of these events, one of which is very dear to you all as members of this Parliament, and particularly to the President.
(FR) Madam President, when a Swede, a Spaniard, a Luxembourgeois and a German have to negotiate in English, linguistic ambiguities will arise.
A second argument for keeping the dismantling of cars out of the manufacturers' clutches is the cost of transport.
Actually, I do not entirely share Mr Haarder' s view.
Could I thank Commissioner Patten for coming here at short notice to respond to our wish to debate this very critical issue and as others have said, the television pictures that we have seen of the stricken Limpopo valley in Mozambique are absolutely heartbreaking.
But at the mid-way point or end of that period there is no effective way of terminating the project if it has not proved successful.
We need independent procedures and procedures involving public control.
Unfortunately there is far too little appreciation of the steady advance of processes of democratisation which, unlike the various crises that arise, largely pass unnoticed.
Margarine and a few kilos of paint which, in principle, do not present risks, led to a genuine disaster.
I can assure you that those countries awarding flags would then take great care to avoid having to accept liability.
The population was not allowed any input.
The concerted actions of the United Nations institutions have played an important role here, as has the Bretton Woods system.
I believe that congratulations are also in order for the Commission with regard to this notification, for these four points are, in fact, to a very large number of EU citizens extremely important - if not the most important points which merit further thought.
I suppose that the first thing they say will be, 'let us see whether you are capable of reaching a fiscal agreement within the Union' .
Malta, Cyprus and Turkey were not provided for at this stage.
Mr President, I share the view that we need to make more progress from the point of view of efficiency and the analysis of the cost-effectiveness of the services offered.
How often has a lawyer with two companies and one project, in the face of a Commission guideline given ex ante, changed that project in order for it to comply with the competition rules!
Mr President, this debate is mainly concerned with the preparations for the forthcoming annual UN Human Rights Convention and the Commission' s and Council' s efforts in this respect.
The views of the European Parliament on this issue too, will certainly be both timely and welcome.
Firstly, we wish to express our total support for, and our solidarity with, the statement of the Presidency-in-Office of the Council and the 14 Member States, because we believe that this statement is in accordance with the common values, and not just the political force, which we have all built together.
In other words, 2000 will be a test of the political will to take Amsterdam seriously and to help to build the foundations for an enlarged political Union for the next decade - a test for the Council, for Parliament and for the Commission.
The entire taxation system must be given an environmental perspective in the medium term.
They will get their workforce to do more work at lower wages.
We should not be so politically partisan.
It is only fair that we should regulate aid to Macedonia properly now.
This being the case, various amendments to the rapporteur' s initial draft report were adopted in committee, particularly highlighting the need for effective reimbursement of aid found to be illegal as well as the establishment of a league table of results.
The mismanagement and examples of fraud which occur ought not to lead to our ending up in an old-fashioned hierarchical bureaucracy which, through an exaggerated supervision of detail, prevents the development of a modern administration.
Concentrating to the exclusion of all else on supply and demand-orientated economic policy is not the answer.
Take the new chocolate directive, which shows that EU countries spend more on chocolate every year than on development aid.
It should provide equal opportunities for all those at a disadvantage in the European Union.
However, the thing that worries us most, Mr President, is the decrease in prices, by 30%, owing to imports.
I think that the end of the centralised system will certainly not result in any relaxation of effective financial control but will increase its effectiveness and its relationship to operational tasks.
In 1999, the Commission also presented its contribution towards a European action plan to combat drugs, which underpins the strategy approved by the Helsinki European Council.
(Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution)
Mr President, I shall be speaking on behalf of the PPE-DE Group, but also as an elected representative for Brittany, and I am therefore directly concerned and shocked by these events.
I think it is worth reminding you that the inclusion of this item on the agenda clearly reflects the need, which has been expressed by all the political Groups, for Parliament to hold a debate before the next meeting of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights in Geneva, so that it may express its opinion on such a sensitive issue, one which is so dear to this House.
We do not think LEADER + will contribute substantively towards solving the countryside' s problems, which are characterised by the decline of farming, which was and should remain the countryside' s basic social and economic branch.
The decision could have huge implications for our local economy.
Counterfeiting is not on the list.
We are badly behind now in this matter.
These developments are encouraging but do not detract from the fact that the situation of human rights in the world remains very disquieting.
I wish to express that view even if I respectfully disagreed and voted against the proposal of the President of the Socialist Group.
We are now in a third period: in this third period, the composition of the bodies which wield political and economic power needs to be changed.
Our own staff policy is outdated.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I endorse the many comments which have been made by the previous speakers, but I would like to emphasise a few things.
Frequent monitoring and situation assessments have shown that European Union assistance is contributing to the stability of these countries and therefore the ongoing peace process.
After the first reading in the European Parliament in 1999, the Commission' s proposal ended up in an awkward political situation in the Council.
However, on this occasion, the European Union will be insisting on introducing political criteria into the Lomé Convention Accord.
A growing body of opinion in Scotland holds that view.
These cultural dimensions, however, almost always have their own economic dimension in turn, that is the level of resources which can be called on specifically to provide aid for cultural initiatives.
In this respect, all ideas deserve to be considered, including the Tobin tax which is important, just like other forms of transaction which may be envisaged.
The Tibet Intergroup is very concerned about the worsening situation in Tibet and it is clear that the current policy of the European Union has proved inadequate to address the grave human rights abuses faced by Tibetans daily in Tibet.
And if we cannot solve the political problem, which must be done in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolution, then we will not solve the problem of child health, nor the various other problems faced by this region.
From your speech I will concentrate on what you have called the new governance, which you will use as a tool for reconciliation with our fellow citizens.
I would be grateful if the President of the Commission would listen to what I have to say, although of course he has no obligation to do so.
These are significant texts, adopted in accordance with Article 13 of the Treaty, which gave the Community jurisdiction to fight discrimination on the grounds of race, ethnic origin, sex etc.
While maintaining emphasis on humanitarian needs, the Commission is preparing for a post-conflict phase in our financial support for Angola.
A major part of Wales, as you know, has been granted Objective 1 status under the Structural Funds programme.
These projects must therefore be properly taken into account and must integrate sustainable development.
I am pleased that the debate we have been having here has been a tough one, for it underlines the fact that there are various approaches to economic policy.
The Commission and Parliament can help us understand, in the first place, exactly what we are dealing with, because even the term 'tourism' , as was, moreover, pointed out in the Viceconte report, is still an ambiguous term, a kind of variable that depends on latitude, climate, a range of opportunities, and a series of background factors; it can be synonymous with holidays or it can be a true area of production, income, wealth and employment.
This will contribute hugely towards re-establishing the confidence of the European citizens in this institution.
Thirdly, we have the problem of the uniform application of Community law.
The report tackles stability in the region in a structural manner. This is also the purpose of the pending agreement with the Republic of Macedonia which we are debating today.
I have as yet not heard any arguments on the basis of which the Commission would need to extend this period.
We know the social causes which contribute, along with unemployment and instability, to fuelling tendencies towards this; we know the accompanying cultural causes - xenophobia, racism - but with the inability and unwillingness of these extreme right-wing groups to settle accounts with nazism, we cannot fail to point out the possibility of an explosive mixture being created in Europe.
In my opinion, this is the only way if we want to gain the approval of the people with regard to Europe and their interest in Europe too.
A central feature of the reform will therefore be a more rigorous process for tying the process of priority-setting into resource allocation under a system of activity-based management.
I have listened to the somewhat equivocal talk and silences on the part of the Council which, in my view, need clarifying.
I think it would be a good idea if the Commission published a register specifying the amount of state aid per Member State.
But while the Commission must ensure that it respects the Treaty and the Financial Regulation in the transitional phase, this must not be an excuse for inertia.
I am particularly thinking in this respect of certain infrastructures which are under construction.
I am thinking in particular of countries such as Cuba which are isolated but I know, because I have travelled there extensively, that the Cubans who come into contact with tourists can learn something of the outside world, obtain different information and pass on different information.
He has done really good work in a very short time.
Last week, we had a very impassioned discussion about the formation of the Austrian Government.
As your Parliament is aware, the Commission is convinced that, without fundamental reform, the Community judicial bodies run the risk - in the short term - of no longer being able to carry out their task within reasonable deadlines.
I have to admit that in Flanders, where I come from, we still have a long way to go too.
Partly this is substance and partly it is in respect of the legal base in regard to the special position of the United Kingdom.
The second question concerns the reversed burden of proof.
If a particular Member State was to declare that it had suddenly run into problems because the individual concerned had committed a theft and the card was for their country, then this particular Member State would be able to revoke this card, as it were, for the reasons cited in this directive, which is altogether a flexible and intelligent solution.
We also reject the amendments which aim to incorporate the integral cost of water for 2010.
That is why we spoke in favour of breaking down the budget, the allocation of funds that is, into the different types of measure.
But what is to prevent us, before the sitting is opened or when you close the sitting, opening the curtains and enjoying the apparently magnificent view behind you?
The Commission's DGs must be made fully responsible for their own expenditure, including financial control.
EQUAL stands for "equality" .
The Commission' s decision to allow the ABB-Alsthom merger to go ahead is a case in point.
Would it not be beneficial, in the short term, following the Rotterdam model, to inspect according to a points system in which, for example, account is taken of the ship' s age, whether it is single or double-hulled or whether it sails under a flag of convenience.
Today, that commitment has been fully discharged: you have the reform here, before you, in the form of an institutional White Paper which has just been adopted by the Commission.
It is our responsibility as a parliament, particularly as the democratically elected voice of the European Union, to comment on current political developments in Austria which are in conflict with the policies of this parliament.
I therefore urge that we not only implement the high-level group as proposed by the Commission but also go further and have a Luxembourg-type process so that we have an integrated approach to this issue of social protection.
Irresponsibility because the feeling exists in some quarters that there will not be sufficient control and discipline.
We must press on in that direction because we know it is vital.
For the first time, the European Union tabled a resolution on the death penalty, which was enormously successful, and led work on a resolution concerning children' s rights, which was a joint initiative with the Latin American group of countries.
This is what our European 'Culture 2000' programme offers.
You may know that with effect from 15 January 2000, under the new financial instrument for fisheries guidance, Member States may encourage eradication of diseases in aquaculture.
. Let me start by saying something about the successfully concluded negotiations between the EU and ACP countries.
It is self-evident that liberalisation is not an end in itself, but only a means towards improving services.
We therefore feel that you acted correctly in sending a message and that perhaps those who protested about it are still feeling the effects of Bolshevism or Nazism. Democracy means dialogue with others and making others realise when they are wrong, but also listening to their explanations.
In reaching an agreement with Jörg Haider and his party, the Austrian Christian Democrats would at a stroke be confirming political respectability on right wing extremism and also giving them access to power - both of which they will utilise as a launching pad for even greater electoral success.
Does "the European integration model as a rich source for global administration" imply the export of a large-scale perspective and concentration of power?
I hope that the projects included within the programmes can help to provide solutions to these problems and to implement in practical terms the principle of free movement of workers which is in a bad way in my region!
As a consequence of the continental legal tradition, consideration of whether certain agreements are anti-competitive or not depends more on an analysis of their clauses than on their effects on the market.
It is of inestimable importance that people in Europe, as well as in the rest of the world, should have the opportunity to experience each other' s ways of ordering their lives and their societies.
Few initiatives within the European Union can have been progressed with such determination, drive and commitment as has been achieved in crisis management since Helsinki.
On the one hand, we have been asked to provide Parliament with information regarding the progress of invitations to tender and, in this respect, I can tell you that the Commission was last week able to provide Parliament' s Committee on Budgets with the latest statement of contracts and payments carried out since the task force was sent into action in Kosovo.
We call on everyone, within and outside Kosovo, to support these common aims, to support UNMIK and KFOR in their efforts to achieve them.
Since the Belgian Government' s appeal to a higher court was declared admissible last week and since the decision has essentially not yet been taken, it is important for Parliament to at last give out a strong message, a message which should signify that nobody can escape a just trial.
It is, of course, the responsibility of policies, and therefore our responsibility, to guarantee the safety of sea transport.
It has been to the lecture room of the university professor in Constitutional Law, Francisco Tomás y Valiente, and killed him in cold blood. Now, just a few days ago, in the same odious way in which it assassinated Admiral Blanco, it has killed the socialist MP and spokesman in the Vitoria parliament, Fernando Buesa, and his bodyguard, Jorge Díez, of the Basque police force.
The EU should be prepared to meet that competition.
It is his first report here in plenary.
In my opinion, the Commission and Mr Kinnock should come with good intentions and with sound plans on personnel policy and financial management, but each Commissioner who is now responsible for an area which has had serious shortcomings in the past should come with sound plans in order to improve the situation and not with general, empty proposals.
In the course of my speech, I would also like to address Lord Inglewood regarding the remark he has just made.
We need to pinpoint, and draw up an inventory of, the problem areas for coherence.
Secondly, I would like to thank Mr Knörr for his speediness.
This process will take place in the coming five years so that, by 2005, the LDCs' exporters will have free access for essentially all their products on the EU market.
Why was the critical report on the coherence of development policy not disseminated externally?
Nevertheless, we are left feeling slightly perplexed that they envisage an institution which will mean higher quality, without immediately planning how to deal with the repercussions of this. That is to say, they are neglecting the area of defence and therefore the possibility for the prosecution and the defence to work together effectively within such an important legal system.
I welcome many of the developments which Mr Schmidt' s report brings us.
In that regard allow me to say, since I come from a country through which the Danube flows, that I am grateful that the Commission, i.e. Commissioner Patten and also Vice-President Palacio, with whom I was recently in Budapest, is considering opening the Danube to shipping again. That would provide for a modicum of economic recovery in this region too, which, of course, would be of particular importance to Romania.
I am sure the President-in-Office of the Council is a very nice man and is very kind to his wife and his children and his dog.
We find that the European Court is not able to provide us with interim measures in a certain dispute that we have with France at the moment, in which we have the support of the Commission.
(The sitting was suspended at 1.40 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
We think LEADER + will be even more ineffectual than LEADER 1 and LEADER 2, for the following reasons.
A few salient points: the disciplinary procedures are not taking effect, especially when it comes to calling officials to account for their misdemeanours, including those of a financial nature.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, your inspiring speech, Mr Prodi, has quite won me over.
President Arafat will be meeting the Council of Ministers next week.
And yet, and this is the sixth area of incoherence, we do not defend the application of the current Treaties.
Third, there are several references in the resolution to permanent employment.
However, we must also ask ourselves about our own democratic arrangements.
What do they see?
They farm, not just for a living, but in order to live, and this makes a difference.
Although Britain and France have had their differences recently, I can assure you that there is considerable sympathy in my country for all those affected.
If you travel to the Netherlands, you will find that every last owner can get rid of his car cost-free.
Firstly there is the question as to what this directive is actually designed to achieve, that is achieve in the real sense.
I can see the complexities that concern the honourable Member, but I say to him that in the last five years there have been ten cases in which there have been requests from national legal authorities for the immunity of 26 officials to be lifted, and every single one of those requests has been met, and met with alacrity.
Mr President, as all the previous speakers have done, I should like in turn to thank Mr Berend and congratulate him on the quality of his report.
However, an objective is emerging behind this issue of Community accession, one I find as yet too theoretical but one that some Member States, nonetheless, find too offensive.
It would also be the first time that the European Parliament would be weakening a Council position, whereas usually we are complaining that their position is not strong enough.
I would nevertheless like to thank the rapporteur and congratulate him on his work. He listened very closely to our arguments at the committee stage, and particularly those on the issue of respecting the rights of the defence, both at national level and at the level of cooperation on criminal law as part of European mutual assistance.
The exact amount and timing of implementation of the second tranche will be decided in due course taking into account developments in Kosovo' s external financing needs and contributions from other bilateral donors.
And we must also be aware that there will be contradictions between the various Community policies, in this case development policy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, water is a precious raw material.
Such a view is not only a political cop-out, it is positively dangerous.
Even here, we have renounced voluntarily - because this did not happen automatically - the Plumb-Delors agreement as part of the overall compromise.
In 1953, we suffered an enormous flood at a time when we were able to play a pioneering role in terms of dam technology.
I urge the House to support these changes.
Mr President, the Portuguese Presidency is extremely anxious to give a comprehensive answer to this question, particularly because it broaches an issue which concerns Portugal in a positive way, and I shall explain how.
We do need to obtain, from the Commission and the Council, in other words from each of the governments forming the Union, a clear, positive or negative, political stance. They must indicate whether they are ready to defend, within competent public bodies such as the International Monetary Fund in the first instance, the appropriateness of such a tax within the other instruments needed to stabilise the international monetary system.
Projects have often remained half-finished, and their efficiency has been drained by administration and bureaucracy.
I want to emphasise four points.
It would be a tragedy if their efforts were to be undermined by deficiencies in EU legislation.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for an interesting debate in which many important arguments have been presented.
Nor must we underestimate the representation of women in economic decision-making centres.
Whatever system is adopted, ultimately the cost will be passed on to the consumer.
The Commission would have abolished URBAN, but this time Parliament drew the longer straw.
In fact I consider it essential for the Council to accept only purely technical relations with the representatives of an Austrian Government which includes members of the Austrian Freedom Party.
That was how it was.
On Mrs Isler Béguin' s first point I must remind her that the improvement of the scientific basis and technical capacities of the regions in order to increase their competitiveness was one of the Community' s priorities during the previous programming period.
That is why the Commission supports Mrs Palacio' s Amendment No 22 in both respects.
On the other hand, it has shown complete intransigence with regard to the funds requested by this Parliament, which were minimal anyway.
Words framed in inclusive and liberating documents become treaties and conventions which are often paraded as a testimony to a country's respect for and adherence to human rights.
This must be brought forward.
I have even submitted four amendments on behalf of my group that largely relate to the correct way of quoting Council decisions.
The postal market is limping along behind and, sadly, we have wasted valuable time here.
Admittedly, an effective competition policy is a prerequisite for the proper operation of the internal market and of economic and monetary union.
Scrapie is a particularly insidious disease because the pathogen can remain active in dust for years and is then ingested in food.
The Amsterdam Treaty and the Tampere Council built on this project for an area of freedom, security and justice in the European Union.
This should not be taken as a criticism of the Court or of its staff, rather of the Court' s structure and its lack of resources in a growing European Union.
But opinion differs as to the solution.
This is why I think that this first agreement with Macedonia is so crucial, because it serves as a model.
We were therefore also very satisfied with the decisions which were taken on this issue at the Helsinki Summit in December.
Let the managers manage.
(FR) Drinking, eating, washing, farming - water irrigates each act of our daily life and we treat it, wrongly, as an unfailing and inexhaustible resource.
Genuine transparency of the institutions' workings and the way they are presented throughout Europe is an extremely important issue and one which, in my opinion, needs to be studied again, particularly in the context of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference.
We have achieved a compromise solution.
Firstly, no attempt is being made to change the system in Denmark or in any other country.
In this respect, I share Mrs Plooij-Van Gorsel' s view that we cannot talk about these in detail.
It has to give a service to them and certainly the recommendations on cutting down on payment delays I am sure will be very welcome, but the other major complaint we get from the people we represent is paperwork. Excessive paperwork.
, rapporteur.
Cyprus and Malta
I also pay tribute to Mrs Kinnock and her working group for the huge amount of work they put in on the future of Lomé.
The Commission agrees with MEPs that the current method of dumping electrical and electronic waste is causing major environmental problems.
Mr President, we did not need to witness the end the Kosovo conflict to reach the conclusion that, after various wars in the territory of the former Yugoslavia, with their untold negative effects on the stability of the Balkans, a global and durable strategy for the whole region is needed, aimed at guaranteeing peace and stability in south-east Europe.
President Prodi began his speech by talking of a paradoxical situation, a paradox in the European Union and also throughout the world: we are at the dawn of a new secular millennium, dominated by the web of the Internet and the sorcery of biotechnological advance, and we are living through a genuine change of epoch.
Thank you, Mrs Diamantopoulou.
I am sure that in this way the European Parliament will not be just an observer at these negotiations any more than the Commission will be.
Public opinion would find it hard to understand that we talk about a common judicial area, common airspace, a common rail area and a single market, but not a common maritime area. I therefore believe that this is a project which must be opened up with the absolute will to see it followed through and followed through in concrete terms.
I also endorse the rationale underlying the general maximum percentage of the counterparty risk in Amendments Nos 17, 36 and 45.
The various recent announcements referred to by previous speakers, be they by Michelin or Goodyear, are symptomatic in this respect.
I have repeatedly emphasised that, indeed not just as a Commissioner, but in 25 or 30 years of campaigning.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Vitorino.
Mr President, as Mr Van Hecke rightly pointed out, this is about human rights and about the rights of indigenous peoples, and Parliament must speak up, especially vis-à-vis good friends, and the United States is a good friend.
He stated: "Contradictions in policy can lead to balance."
This is how we can give sense and morality to the commercial rules and show solidarity with the people of the south.
I believe that as far as the judicial difficulties are concerned that we are facing here - and the European Union evidently has only very limited room for manoeuvre when it comes to making these offences litigable as European criminal offences - we have become embroiled in legalities.
These include a comprehensive information gathering and surveillance function, the coordination of scientific information in the EU, and building up strong networks with food safety agencies and bodies in Member States.
First, the Commission was right to concentrate its investigation on the liability of RINA, the Italian shipping register, because we need to know if Community law was applied.
Mr President, I would like to start by extending my compliments to the rapporteur, Mr van Hulten, on his first report.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a five-year programme is an extremely important undertaking, and this is why I preferred that you be given the unabridged text of the speech, which is available in four languages.
That is a basic principle governing the internal market and derogations from this principle must be exceptions and must be limited in time.
In addition to financial outlay and reconstruction work, urgent attention must also be given to restoring the coexistence of Serbs, Albanians and other minorities - not forgetting the Roma of course - in this country, so that at some point in the near future, on the road to coexistence, it will hopefully be possible for some form of reconciliation to take place.
That is why this job went to Mr Solana, the Secretary-General of NATO, who is also guilty of the crimes committed against Yugoslavia; the right man for the right job, against whom charges have been filed, calling for him to be tried as a war criminal.
Consequently, we too shall also vote to reserve our right to refer the proposal back to committee if need be.
I am quite sure that Mrs Kinnock' s report and the one on regional cooperation and integration had a major bearing on the outcome of these negotiations.
In years past, the single market and the single currency have been the pivotal point of our actions, the mainstay of European life.
I want to start by saying that I am pleased to be presenting this communication on the use of the precautionary principle, and it has been written together with David Byrne and Erkki Liikanen.
The results are clear in terms of the improvement of the quality of life in the target areas.
The way in which the political opposition is now being treated, however, gives us cause for great concern and, if it carries on like this, it is bound to impact on the Union' s relations with Cambodia.
But if we are to secure the public' s participation in this new planning, we would like to learn what plan the European bodies and specifically the Commission are proposing as the social and democratic model of Europe in the twenty-first century.
I am keen that the Structural Funds, particularly those in Objective 1, are allocated where needed.
We should not overlook this fact: postal service is about more than just ferrying around letters and parcels.
At the same time, however, we see from the van Hulten report under discussion today that the European Public Prosecutor should in turn be supervised by a European Union court.
I am sure that he is aware of the very serious threat to the European model which is based on family farming, mainly those farmers involved in beef and sheepmeat production who are now expected to sell their produce at or below production costs.
Mr Nielson will be happy to report back to Parliament on the findings of his mission.
That is precisely what we do not want in the European Union.
Our policy is to encourage the recruitment of women to administrative posts in order to create a reserve of suitable candidates for future promotion to managerial positions.
This is a very serious problem which the European Union, as an economic, commercial, industrial and fishing power, must tackle.
A laborious conciliation procedure would entail an unnecessary delay, at the expense of the environment.
In that respect, nothing. On the contrary, extending the Community' s legal competence within the framework of the third pillar has increased the burden.
Madam President, the timetable must ensure that, by December of this year during the French presidency, the process can be completed with a major conference of forces from all the countries to ensure that the needs and capacities match. We will then be able to say truthfully that we have a plan of what we must do between the end of the year 2000 and the year 2003 which is the date we have set for having this capacity available.
Since the time allotted to Questions to the Council has elapsed, Questions Nos 11 to 35 will be replied to in writing.
I therefore extend my special thanks to my colleagues in the group who helped us find compromises.
This is a real problem: there are too many different financial instruments, each with its own characteristics and in particular a series of different budget headings.
Particular attention in this respect should be given to combating fraud, to detecting it, punishing those guilty of it and preventing it from happening.
A new government has come into power in Austria, comprising a political party which has sent out a message of racism and intolerance vis-à-vis minorities.
In other words, to put it simply, Denmark has a choice: it can either introduce legislation or it can use the legislative process to choose a collective agreement and legally activate it.
In so far as it is at all possible with all of the advice at our disposal and all of the design capability that we have, I am certain that we have installed, or that we will install on the basis of our proposals, a system that will provide the Union, its taxpayers and this House with complete security.
If we allow the postal services to drift into complete privatisation then we will lose all that and many of our local communities - we were voting earlier on tourism - will lose their tourist trade.
To summarise, perhaps what struck me most in your speech; above all, you wished to remind us that, beyond its economic aspects, the task of constructing Europe is a spiritual one.
The reason Mr Koch produced his sound report was because the work in the CEN and within the United Nations Economic Commission was proceeding none too expeditiously.
So there is doubt as to whether these pledges of the Commission contain enough substance at this crucial time when decisions need to be made.
For the reasons set out above, I cannot see a good reason for introducing a European Tobin tax.
These amendments by the Green component of the Greens/European Free Alliance Group are designed to provide justification for Amendment 13.
We will want, in the longer term, to see what lessons can be drawn from this disaster, above all to see how to prevent such disasters happening in the first place.
That system has proved itself to be inappropriate because it is, in actual fact, of use only to relatively few of the 71 countries concerned.
Someone planted a car bomb and one person has died.
There is little room for negotiation if one of the parties states beforehand: anything is open for discussion, as long as the budget stays fixed.
Again, this is a way that we can help create better opportunities for jobs and for prosperity.
It is thus, as you can see, a very important draft, that will effectively serve to provide the Member States of the Union with a more comprehensive and consistent instrument for mutual assistance.
This is because the institutional framework within which Europe will operate in the future is a foundation of European integration and is therefore a matter of the greatest national importance for every one of the Union' s Member States.
Additives in feedingstuffs
We would then be overreaching ourselves.
Because LEADER is a kind of workshop with a bottom-up approach, a huge number of ideas have come to fruition in recent years through LEADER I and II which of course at some point will no longer be brand new or as successful as they once were.
This proposal can therefore be approved.
We are coming from behind in dealing with the issue and the government is doing its utmost to catch up.
From the decisions made at the Helsinki Summit, it emerges that the agenda agreed there is unsatisfactory and does not guarantee the essential and substantive changes required for creating a more functional Europe, one that is more effective, more democratic and more transparent.
The next item is the report (A5-0015/2000) by Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 70/524/EEC concerning additives in feedingstuffs (COM(1999) 388 - C5-0134/1999 - 1999/0168(CNS)).
That modernisation came to be particularly necessary for five reasons. Firstly, the authorisation system; secondly, decentralised application; thirdly, procedural rules; fourthly, judicial application; and fifthly and finally, excessive red tape.
That it is what we are doing.
I am simply asking the Commission to come and inform the Committee on Budgets before implementing the second tranche.
Some of the measures we have put in place in the past have not been honoured by some of the Member States - and let us not forget that the Member States are responsible for implementing about 80% of the EU budget.
Try telling that to the governments of the United States, Russia and China.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mozambique is a young African country which has made heroic efforts to recover from the underdevelopment resulting from two decades of civil war and to adapt to democracy.
I propose that we start the debate immediately.
Countries downstream must be able to count on the fact that countries upstream meet the quality objectives.
Mr President, legislating in criminal matters is often countered, wrongly, with arguments of individual freedom and security.
There can be no democracy without a living parliament.
It goes without saying, therefore, that tourism, developed rationally in the long term, should represent a sustainable source of income for local economies, while safeguarding and enhancing the value of the rural, cultural, historical and environmental heritage.
It has already been mentioned that the Treaty of Amsterdam came into force in May and this Parliament stated that the most far-reaching innovation in this Treaty was its recognition of the need to establish an area of freedom, security and justice.
They have more first-hand knowledge of social needs. They have more involvement in the problems and, furthermore, they know how to conceive projects and implement them effectively without weighing them down with bureaucracy, and thereby achieve better results.
My group is especially attracted to the creative possibilities you signal in regard to the prospect of a White Paper next spring addressing the issue of governance.
We need to define the precise responsibilities of the ECB, the national central banks, the Commission and Europol pertaining to all matters relating to counterfeiting of the euro.
However, this increase in pace accentuates the lack of coordination between these decisions and the on-going Intergovernmental Conference even further.
We are delighted about the rapid progress which has been made following the Helsinki Summit.
The many contradictions and conflicting views over what Europe is and the many different legal systems could not only lead to confusion and inefficiency but also create dangerous situations.
They are completely untrue, malicious, politically biased and were broadcast in the full knowledge of their falsehood.
We ought to face it regardless of how difficult it may seem.
There are amendments here today that are proposing that should be the case.
On a final note, I too believe that OLAF requires monitoring under rule of law.
Above all, Madam President - and here I will end - we must be able to express this in plain language, clearly, by changing to some extent the jargon which we use, because we cannot ask the Europeans, who are living through profound changes, to take part and show enthusiasm towards us if we continue to use a form of language which they find completely inaccessible.
The debate is closed.
Romano Prodi promised a revolution.
The ECB, ECOFIN, Europol, OLAF and the Commissioner responsible for legal questions have therefore realised that common countermeasures must be taken quickly in order to close the loopholes left by the legislation.
First of all, the European Parliament must give the green light to something and then the national parliaments will decide whether or not to send their soldiers.
The pattern of intimidation is clear.
Is it not our responsibility to give thought to how we should tackle this brand of politics?
However, because of the mixture of roles of both financial management and control, and audit under the present terms, it is very difficult to think of this as an uncompromised role, no matter how great the integrity of the person actually holding it.
In relation to the latter point, Ireland wants to maintain the right to nominate a full and equal Member of the Commission irrespective of the number of Member States joining.
However, the financial controllers must work independently.
It sets out over 80 separate actions that are envisaged over the period ahead and intends to close identified loopholes in current legislation.
Basically, the more we lose our grip on morals, the more we tighten our grip on our wallet.
Quotas are one of the ways, one of the policies needed to bring about change.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes this debate and we welcome the fact that the Commission submitted a document so that we could prepare for the debate.
We ought to throw a big party when the figure reaches 100% in the near future, which is indeed what the new Convention is aiming at.
But the idea of a European Public Prosecutor, on the other hand, aims in the long term to confine the national states to a subordinate role in these matters.
However, democratic elections do not make democrats of those who have threatened democracy.
It is vital to make Community policy more effective and to develop a more operational strategic framework.
I am particularly in favour of a proposed amendment tabled by my Group to paragraph 10, to ensure an appropriate level of private sector involvement in the planning and implementation of the projects.
It does not take into account the latest Eurostat reports regarding rising inflation which, at 2%, is now at its maximum permitted level.
We therefore welcome the Commission' s proposal on additives in feedingstuffs.
That is in line with the draft resolution.
We had a regional debate in Nassau in the Caribbean and this was extremely productive.
I also see this as offering special potential for the existing postal service.
I should like to make clear that my group is going to propose an amendment deleting the detail of how the Commission should tackle this question.
I have no doubt that as a result of the increasing political attention attached to these problems - something which has clearly been reflected in the debate today - it will be easier for the Commission and the DG on Development to bring coherence to the forefront of our working agenda.
In those circumstances, consideration should be given to what is likely to produce the best result.
It cannot afford to remain outside the regional alliances being forged in this area, lest it miss out on a historic opportunity, and the same applies to our regions in the Caribbean.
Few of my constituents will probably be aware that the EU is the biggest foreign aid donor in the world.
I am sure you will be relieved to hear that as well.
To this day I am still awaiting an initiative from the Commission, which will actually enable me to start work.
The cultural programmes launched in years past - Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael - are being replaced by a single programme, Culture 2000, where - and I must stress this here very forcefully - the rapporteur censures a position which should give the European Parliament cause for reflection - as someone said this afternoon - but which still underlines the huge importance of being part of a vast community where cultural interpretation is a democratic factor.
Our common aim is to reform and strengthen competition policy, a pillar of the social market economy and of European construction.
I would ask you once again to work on this.
There must be equality in terms of national representation within the Commission and within all the other European institutions.
You know very well that the Treaty provides no legal basis for policies at European level, but there is the agreement expressed at the last Council, there is agreement that work should begin on coordination and the exchange of experience, as well as the exchange of successful programmes between the Member States.
I would hope that the same holds true for the proposal to reduce the minimum period of duration for a first posting to three months, and to be flexible in adapting the period of validity of the service provision card to the duration of the first posting.
For one thing is clear: even if we come to an excellent arrangement within the European Union, traffic does not stop at our borders, it goes beyond them.
Since then, however, there has been no progress.
There is also the desire to create a legal entitlement to confidentiality and to lock away documents of a kind which are at present publicly available in a range of Member States.
May I take this opportunity to remind you that previous resolutions concerning the Nitrates Directive have still not been implemented in all Member States, in spite of the fact that there is a common EU resolution.
I am referring to the double hull, which consists of two layers of steel, with containers divided into two tanks.
Firstly, Mr President, although your two predecessors concentrated on developing an internal market and establishing the single currency, it has been left to you to develop this whole value of citizenship which is at the heart of European construction.
It is better to do it absolutely properly.
I listened to your general guidelines and I would like to ask you what is the position of children, as entities in their own right, in the Commission' s plans for the new model of society in the twenty-first century.
According to these conclusions, the Charter must contain three categories of rights. The first category is rights of freedom and equality and procedural rights, as guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
I believe the networking system to be vital for the exchange of information and skills and for the implementation of joint projects between different areas of the Union and I repeat that in order to be fully successful it must exploit inter alia measures already in existence, such as the Carrefours.
The Council proposal containing those requirements, ENFOPOL 98 was approved by this Parliament last May in the Schmid report.
It sees, in the whole readjustment of aid instruments, a risk that it will no longer be the last carriage of a train heading towards Europe but that this train will continue through Europe while leaving FYROM on a siding.
The Commission is addressing a very important area, that is, commercial policy.
(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
The Member States would not accept a regulatory agency, so there is not very much point in your proposing one.
However, I should like to affirm that it is exactly as I said, namely, that prices have fallen in areas where there is competition, whereas they have risen where there is still a monopoly.
Is it the case that a risk assessment is firstly to be carried out, including a cost-benefit analysis?
Not only should this be deleted, the whole interception title should be scrapped.
All of the above priorities will be pursued equally at both the Community level and in the various international fora in which the Community participates.
Non-least-developed countries are likely to face considerable pressure to accept these arrangements.
Countries that claim to be at the heart of Europe but which systematically break its rules should be named and shamed and their hypocrisy revealed.
The intention of Florenz and Lange in their amendments is obvious: to sabotage the directive!
In the environmental field we have just passed a directive on marine pollution.
Enlargement - that is enlargement of the Union - is one of the key challenges in this context.
The report rightly emphasises the central importance that human resources policy must have in reform.
If we do not act promptly - as Mrs Cederschiöld rightly said - anyone can produce a few counterfeit euros now and possibly not be prosecuted for subsequently putting them into circulation.
It is crucial to adhere to a limit upon total discharges of chemicals into our waters.
I totally agree with the arguments that were put forward by Mr Morillon.
The Commission will then adopt the code at second reading.
Mr Böge was responsible for some invaluable work on this committee, and it is a relief to see that the job of monitoring the work of the BSE Committee in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has fallen to him: he is the one with the experience.
Mr President, allow me in this context to remind MEPs - especially in view of a discussion earlier this evening - of the fact that the man who is mainly responsible for war, human degradation, murder and driving innocent people from their homes is still governing what remains of Yugoslavia, namely Serbia.
But I have no doubt at all that he is right to point to the strategic importance of Central Asia.
It is a pity I cannot say the same for some of his other colleagues.
Indeed, enlargement, which will be with us for our five years in office and beyond - I am referring to the aspirations of applicant countries - must hinge on concrete, objective criteria, and also on reassuring public opinion in the countries involved and, to an even greater degree, public opinion in our own Member States.
However, my question for a very long time has been this: what happened with previous policies?
It has already been compiled by the Commission and I can make a copy available to any Member of this House who is interested.
In this area, the Commission has given priority to a number of routes of action: acting on the structure of markets by actively combating anti-competitive practices, by refocusing its departments' supervisory activities only upon matters with a manifest Community interest and by affirming its intention to modernise competition law.
Madam President, as we have heard, all the groups have a common political enemy in the Council.
Next, we have flags of convenience.
Firstly, efficient controls are needed in Community waters and ports in order to ensure safety in maritime transport, particularly where oil and dangerous goods are involved.
Basically, we are opposed to programmes and structural funds of this type but, since the vote only concerns how - and not to what extent - these resources are to be used, we have confined ourselves to assessing the contents and think, in general, that the proposal for regenerating neighbourhoods in crisis contains some sensible observations, as well as some good suggestions and criteria for the relevant projects.
The fact that administrative expenditure on INTERREG III is - in my opinion - still excessive is something which we can and indeed always must criticise, although it almost seems to me as though this is unavoidable with the Commission' s support programmes.
This is a Community policy which will effect Ireland as well - where I am from - should similar unfortunate events occur.
More than one third of the 8,500 requests received meet the required conditions and it has been possible to cofinance approximately 1,300 projects between 1992 and 1998.
All in all, both sides of industry only have a limited role to play in the process as a whole.
Mr President, for British Conservatives the efficient and uniform application of European competition policy is at the core of achieving an effective single market across the whole of the European Union.
The message that is coming very clearly from all sides of the House to the Commission today is that the Commission should tread warily.
Both branches adopt the legislation - Council and Parliament - that confers implementing powers on the Commission.
We are solidly with our Austrian friends who have proven to be good Europeans in the past.
Seeing the market share that small countries such as Denmark have been capable of acquiring in this field, because they were the first ones to develop that area, gives one food for thought, I feel, and I think that in the long term it will ultimately be necessary to actually increase the budgets for renewable energies.
We have to remember that rural areas represent almost four fifths of the territory of the European Union.
We want to encourage a process of transition to democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.
I should like to stress quite particularly here that we have already made considerable progress under current national and European water protection laws, however imperfect they are and however little they are complied with in the Member States.
If we are to have an effective single market that makes European industry globally competitive and generates wealth and employment for all Europeans, then we must have a level playing field.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
My apologies once again for my mistake.
Despite yesterday' s figures, we certainly consider that the fact that inflation was around 2% in December shows that this is an issue which must be pursued. However, the rate of underlying inflation demonstrates that the inflationist tendencies are due to certain very specific elements such as the rise in oil prices and exchange rate developments.
The proposal, when it is put forward, will take account of the points of view of Member States, Parliament, users, universal service providers and their competitors and by other interested parties, all of whom have been involved in an in-depth consultation process.
This loss is unjustified in a region whose main activities have been ruined by free-trade Europe.
First of all, we would like to express sympathy with all the families and communities that lost members in this terrible tragedy.
It is important for me to have a chance to answer it.
We need the depth of spirit that literature provides in the midst of a culture that has a short attention span and is inclined towards the superficial.
I would like to say that in Italy, considerable headway has been made in this sector; we are perhaps the first in Europe to have regulations encouraging us to take end-of-life vehicles off the market, but in our country the average age of cars on the road is rather high, and we therefore have serious concerns over the problems that this directive could entail for the market.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
The second challenge is that of enlargement which will, of course, have a considerable impact, both in budgetary and geographical terms.
This is something I would stress, particularly with my being an MEP for one of the major Member States.
Madam President, I speak as someone who is in support of a tax on speculative capital movements across currency borders.
First, if an additive consists of or contains genetically-modified organisms, then it should only be authorised if it poses no risk to human health or the environment.
That is to say, if this Parliament commissions a Committee of Experts - and I am not going to repeat what Mr Casaca has said, but I agree with him to a large extent - to analyse a problem, where is the sense in indulging in the medieval tradition of criticising the critics and so on, ad infinitum.
We must give them all our support to reach that goal.
Fourthly, technically speaking, this measure is highly impracticable and will result in a great deal of bureaucracy and administration and be impossible to control.
Mr Pietrasanta explained why we support some aspects of the Commission' s proposal, in particular support for development of a vaccine and compensation for farmers who are forced to slaughter their fish, but were not at all happy with the idea of changes to the slaughter policy.
Secondly, we consider proposal No 2 to be very confused.
The assessment of whether or not the discharge will be granted also depends to some extent on where the emphasis is placed.
Unfortunately, the terrorist murderers are once again punishing Spanish society. I note your comments with particular keenness, as you may expect, given that I too am Spanish.
You will have to discuss this outside the Chamber.
We also all agree that there should be harmonisation in a field that is marked by the great disparity of our legal systems and, what is more, concepts.
But those symptoms and those problems that you mentioned could be there and that could be the effect of the use of depleted uranium.
The credibility of Parliament as a champion of environmental protection is at stake.
I personally feel that issues such as peace-building and conflict prevention and resolution are very much the domain of African Heads of State, with capacity support from the European Union and the OAU acting as arbiter.
Now, the Union can certainly call the body an 'action force' even though for the moment it is only the mobilisation of a few funds and the mustering - on paper - of men, weapons and logistics.
It is also clear that if we do nothing, our agriculture will continue to develop in a very unbalanced manner.
What is, on the other hand, absolutely necessary is to have a bare minimum of set rules that are valid within the Community, and which clearly provide as many additional safeguards as possible, and will also provide guarantees with a view to enlargement.
This is financed by a fund to which the buyer of a new car contributes.
What it has done is increase dramatically the number of working poor in the United States.
It also requires the monitoring of mergers taking employment, the environment and consumers into consideration.
A lack of responsibility, too much ex ante, not enough ex post and, as a result, far too little in the way of a culture of real effective spending.
We believe that this is absolutely vital, failing which we will be unable to take any consistent action as regards the coherence of policies, and we cannot do this without giving development policies their rightful place as an instrument for upholding the principles and values underpinning Europe' s status in the international system.
Most importantly though, we must have a brave and ambitious long-term vision for reform, not just of the WTO but also of the ILO, the United Nations and above all, of the financial institutions, specifically the IMF and the World Bank.
The latter has already brought forward its common position on this matter.
There is another risk to the environment as well, because this disease is transmitted to wild fish, as we have seen.
I also accept and acknowledge that a number of initiatives to update EU legislation in the field of GMOs are necessary.
Finally, we need to set up a system which prepares an objective list of potentially dangerous substances, using the increased information available on their chemical, physical and biological properties, in such a way as to create an integrated model for intervention at a range of strategic levels in order to protect our water heritage, which is fundamental to us all.
I can support the report, but there are a few points which are not completely to my taste.
It was the 1996 accounts which led to the downfall of the previous Commission, and the 1997 accounts are just as incriminating.
Perhaps that will end scandals like the failure of states to deploy in Kosovo the police they promised.
We have to get this right.
I also hope that the same is done in relation to parliamentary control.
The key now is to consolidate and make permanent the progress made to date. This would ensure that the peripheral countries and the ultraperipheral regions, the poorer regions in Europe, are in a position to operate successfully within the new euro currency zone, as well as within an ever-expanding internal market where the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital exist.
This is not an option for us any more.
In terms of comitology, Amendments Nos 14 and 21 also apply in part, insofar as the rights of Parliament are concerned.
We all know that special care is needed to ensure that Cyprus is brought successfully into the European Union, and the decisions taken at Helsinki give an added dimension to this debate, with the acceptance of Turkey as a candidate country.
We must leave raw materials so that local manufacturers can process them.
Seen in this light, globalisation is more of an opportunity than a danger, more of a coming together than a segregation, more mutual enrichment than separation.
At a European Union level we must recognise that the situation is not completely satisfactory, since, for example, although the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms is a common instrument in all Member States, not all subsequent protocols have been ratified or signed by all of them.
The feeling of being at the mercy of others, of lacking in influence and of having no protection from the state leads in the best case scenario to a lack of interest in politics and a refusal to vote, as in the European elections and, in the worst case scenario, to extremist voting patterns.
Corrie report (A5-0032/2000)
We cannot simply forge ahead with something that in the past has shown itself to be inappropriate and wrong-headed.
It often looks as if men today, as in the past, always have the least defined qualifications.
Secondly, we must look at the capacity which each country has so that this total force of 60 000 soldiers is distributed in an orderly and efficient manner between the fifteen countries.
I would like to repeat my appreciation to all the speakers and especially to the rapporteur, Mr Koch.
The creation of this taxation, of either the Tobin type or the more realistic type proposed by Professor Lauré, could prove to be politically opportune, at least due to its symbolism rather than its low rate. This is because it would basically mean that politics was regaining a foothold in an area from which it has been excluded by operators whose profits are proportional to the degree of resignation of States.
The Commission' s second proposal focuses on the bodies which manage UCITS, that is to say management companies.
Democratic investments have to be made to preserve a democratic post office.
Finally, the European Union must be responsible for monitoring the application of its principles.
Those realities, together with the approach of further enlargements, all counsel strongly for modernisation of the Commission, so that this essential institution can fulfil its primary tasks of policy conception and development, of treaty application and of management of the public resources and do so with maximum effectiveness, maximum responsibility and maximum accountability.
This is good, but it is not enough.
That is why it is so important.
You pointed out the quality of the report and you even wrote, if I am not mistaken, that it marked a real improvement in comparison with previous reports.
The Commission considers that this regulation makes no substantive amendment to the text of the Convention.
We share with all the Basque citizens the sufferings of our people.
The EU is also a union for employment and social justice.
The common position does not preclude the possibility of contributions being made by government.
I regret this since we are having to take action because others have not done their job.
Mr President, Commissioner, my compliments to Mrs Lienemann on her excellent work on the Water Directive.
An important part of such a plan would be a benchmarking system to guarantee women' s full participation in power structures and decision making.
We want to guarantee that Swedish citizens too can enjoy the benefits of the internal market, just like other citizens of the European Union.
Delegation to national authorities is all very well but we would emphasise what Mr von Wogau said in his report on the need for regular monitoring of national authorities to ensure that there is no slippage in the European element, and, particularly would ask the Commissioner to reassure us that there would be random checks on that.
When projects are implemented, it is also important that they do not contravene general Community legislation.
Amongst these, firstly, is the fact that, despite trying to modernise Articles 81 and 82, Article 81 and not Article 82 carries exclusive weight.
We must not allow the critics of European integration to claim, as they presently do with some justification as we have just heard from Mr Bonde, that the increase in EU responsibilities is a one-way street only.
I could not conclude without mentioning Mr Van Hecke' s speech in particular, in which he referred to the human rights situation in Africa and to the role and priorities of the Portuguese Presidency, and questioned the sincerity of the priority we are giving to relations with the European Union.
Very well: that is to be the unchanging rule.
The same applies to the Commission and I would again like to thank Commissioner Barnier for his collaboration with the European Parliament and for the very constructive proposals he put before us.
The procedures for setting additional control measures that already exist in Community legislation will be used to establish withdrawal schemes based on the state of health of the fish in order to minimise a possible environmental impact.
The other point which I must highlight and on which we have also worked extensively is the use of video conferencing with regard to accused persons.
(FR) The Lomé Convention, on which the entire structure of relations between the European Union and the 71 African, Caribbean and Pacific countries rests, is still the most efficient and ambitious development tool in north-south relations.
The draft framework decision before us today tries to cover up this lacuna by referring to Articles 31 and 34(2)(b) of the Treaty.
However, there is a current trend - the "fauna, flora, habitat" directive was quoted as an example - which, in my country at least, creates the impression that associations are bypassing national and regional institutions and submitting programmes to Brussels and that Brussels is then making decisions affecting the property of countless agricultural holdings in the countries of the European Union.
The debate and vote here in plenary ought to correct this.
Nevertheless, I cannot forget the numerous criticisms, both from Member States and from market operators, which, given the broad margin for manoeuvre and discretion enjoyed by the Commission in its evaluation of specific cases, maintain that they suffer from legal insecurity in the absence of clear rules allowing interested parties to anticipate the position of the authorities and thereby make feasible requests for aid aimed at the promotion of economic activity and employment, the planning of company mergers etc.
The Danish Members of the Group cannot vote in favour of the proposal but will, on the contrary, be supporting a number of amendments, especially those tabled by the Greens.
They belong in the legislative text. I might do the same if I were a Commissioner, because I could simply change an annex under a comitology procedure and I would not always need to work with Parliament, which takes so long and is so difficult.
Having said that, one of the stumbling blocks concerns Article 12, i.e. the date on which the directive will come into force.
I have heard in the course of the discussions that have taken place in the last few weeks that the Member States do not have enough money to undertake the controls.
This is reasonable and we support this, but we have to ask the Commissioner, why not Africa?
The decision on this initiative was taken in Berlin, where it was decided to take account of professional groups of asylum seekers and to include them in its action.
I would say that in my opinion - and the experiences we have had in the past tend to show this - that reconciling opinions on comitology is rather easier than reconciling opinions on the budget.
This is not policy; it is life' s simple logic.
This is of great importance, especially in the light of European unification and the completion of the internal market.
We have to be aware of this.
I would like to make one last point in answer to Mr Harbour.
We must get away from the situation where we are only aware of human rights when they hit the headlines or abuses are being punished.
All nations from within the confines of the ACP territory who can live up to the requirements of democracy, human rights, governance and an independent judiciary are, I am sure, welcome.
I know that this is a difficult report and that the differing situations of countries cause difficulties, but we must move forward with a framework directive which will prevent a repetition of what is happening on the Danube and what happened in Doñana.
Since we are recovering from a very complex crisis, we must try to enhance our institutions and give them substance.
Mr President, I also want to begin by thanking and congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Corrie, for an excellent report which I think very well describes and summarises the work which has been done in the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in the course of 1999.
It points out some of the serious flaws in this proposal.
It does not replicate at temperatures above 25º centigrade and would, if present in fish for human consumption, be inactivated when ingested.
In that context I support calls to strengthen port state control to ensure full and effective inspection.
We therefore believe that the agenda should be amended to include it.
Securing this is a major priority.
If a political decision is involved, I would also like to ask: who takes this political decision?
If you are able to match these aspirations with actions in the years ahead, you will be making an unprecedented contribution to the future of the European Union as a whole and, as we have heard today, you will enjoy widespread support in this European Parliament.
I would like to thank the Commission for the proposals they have put forward and I am certain that comprehensive discussions with the citizens will ensue here in the European Parliament, on all the issues you have raised.
In Denmark, we have, in any case, seen developments to suggest that quite a lot of women entrepreneurs are on the way up.
Honourable Members, Commissioner, it is often said that Europe has succeeded in stabilising the economic sector, but this is only true if we confine ourselves purely to the public sector.
In this respect, the excellent speech by Mrs Thyssen cannot be improved upon.
We think it is important to guarantee equal opportunities for the groups discussed in the report.
A fault confessed is half redressed.
The use of biotechnology needs to be studied in greater depth and not just "packaged" for immediate sale to boost the profits of a few multinationals in this sector.
There are two issues I would like to draw your attention to.
As I have little time, Mr President, I would like to touch upon two elements of our resolution.
We certainly have done our share to solve that problem, and I sincerely hope that we now will have a soft landing and a peaceful implementation in the forthcoming years of that agreement.
All who are in contact with real life in Kosovo share the same opinion: it is a tragic, desperate situation where there is a democratic void and no possibility of the different ethnic groups living peacefully side by side. Mitrovica is a tragic example of this.
Must there be an IGC?
In anticipation of this EU directive' s being implemented, EU countries ought however to be individually liable for scrapping vehicles in the best way possible so that the retroactive element in the EU legislation is not applied.
On the common agricultural policy, the biggest culprit - no development impact assessment of the Agenda 2000 CAP reforms.
We cannot hand out money with one hand and, with the other, take countries to court, where they may well be fined. It is therefore important that there be a coordination strategy.
I would like to hear your opinion. Do you share this view or do you feel a more significant contribution is needed from the Member States in this respect?
Cuba has just knocked at the door, and, if Cuba is also accepted into the ACP-EU community, that will be a momentous step and will bring in its wake processes of change in Cuba itself.
Naturally we should trade enthusiastically with China and hope that we can welcome China into the World Trade Organisation on sensible terms.
- (FR) I am pleased to see the excellent report on the communication from the Commission entitled 'Women and Science' .
I will give some examples shortly.
It certainly blocks the advance and mobility of people with proven capabilities.
Consequently, consideration will also be given to recycling during the conception phase and production.
Two major areas of concern about the proposal were considered by the Committee.
I do hope that the Commissioner will have the necessary perseverance to also produce the necessary reforms within the Commission - but then, of course, she is young and full of energy.
No notice was given of the closure, and no intention was shown of discussing the fate of the plant or its workers, despite the fact that the public funds invested in that plant make it much more public than private.
We therefore cannot afford to miss any more opportunities, and the great challenge confronting all Europeans now, and particularly women, concerns the new economy and the new information technologies.
In my opinion, we should not jeopardise that common position, because it is a directive which we desperately need for environmental reasons.
As an MEP from a border region, I welcome this third INTERREG initiative with great interest.
That should amply compensate them for forgoing their contact with the postman.
I want to deal with these amendments on a group-by-group basis.
However, the Commission has to act on the basis of values and law and not only on the basis of instinct.
Mr President, we are unable to vote for this report.
Among the steps to be taken will be the implementation of the principle of mutual recognition of judicial decisions and the setting-up of the Euro Just project.
The Commission will keep a close watch on the Greek Government in order to ensure that it honours the commitments which it has made.
Would it be possible for the EU to create a standardised inspection system that would also guarantee payment, out of Community funds, for the inspection of ships that fly a flag of convenience and cannot themselves pay the cost?
This is also important where the prerequisites for the internal market are concerned.
They have earned the confidence of their fellow-citizens.
Certainly, it resembles Amendment No 1, but Amendment No 14 is better.
I will not go into all the details in the course of a parliamentary answer of this kind but I am certain that on examination Mrs Theato will be able to see that in the details of the White Paper, there are very strong assurances.
Mr President, the importance of this initiative is increasing constantly as economic and social problems in Europe' s cities intensify and the public feels more and more out of touch with the administration of its city or neighbourhood.
We have resubmitted a few amendments which fell in committee, in particular, our desire to see the codes of conduct revised specifically to include the reference to merit and managerial capacity which you, Commissioner, accepted - when we had our hearings last September - should be included in these codes of conduct, particularly when considering appointments and promotion.
Since 1991, the Community has provided significant financial support to the New Independent States including the countries of central Asia.
In an industry worth some EUR 600 billion annually, even a slight dip in confidence levels can have significant effects.
Now there were two points I wanted to pick up with Mr Kinnock, if I may.
I am sure Commissioner Bolkestein will listen carefully to all Parliament's comments.
We have still not had a response to crucial questions of this type.
Thirdly, the need to develop the employment side of growth, even though I am aware, as Mr van Dam just said, that the prime responsibility is that of the Member States, and that, when we speak of the responsibility of Member States, and indeed of the usefulness or effectiveness of this regional policy, we must clearly establish what sort of period we are working in.
So ACP cooperation remains very exciting, and not only because of the new emphases introduced in the new Convention.
I do not wish to alter the text of the common position in any way.
We must also ensure that the food that is imported into the European Union meets the standards within the European Union.
At a more central level, there is a need for more effective co-ordination between government donors, international NGOs, indigenous NGOs and private sector initiatives so that scarce resources are not wasted.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am probably going to repeat things my fellow Members have said but I believe that, as far as the Council is concerned, the thing is to repeat over and over what we think of LIFE.
With regard to the proposal for the directive it is worrying that the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy do not take sufficient account of the importance of unpolluted surface waters to increase the occurrence of clean, natural groundwater.
The next item is the report A5-0036/2000 by Mr Hudghton, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council directive amending Directive 93/53/EEC introducing minimum Community measures for the control of certain fish diseases (COM(1999) - C5-0168/1999 - 1999/0191 (CNS)).
But on our other two criticisms, we are less satisfied.
Finally, in my view, this sixth periodic report presents interesting arguments from the viewpoint of a real project for the balanced sustainable development of Europe, particularly when it outlines the importance of relations between the central areas of Europe and its more remote regions.
That is the successful way to manage change, and I hope the Commission will act to make sure that is put into place.
Your votes, colleagues, in favour of my report in full, as endorsed by the Fisheries Committee, will be a very important part of a wider ISA control package based on the reality of Scotland' s situation and the lessons learned from the success of others.
These are the terms of the written answer you gave Mr Martinez on 11 January 2000.
It makes provision in article 9 for prisoners held in custody to be transferred from one state to another despite the fact that guarantees differ.
Once again, we are losing a piece of our planet' s cultural and ecological heritage, despite the many treaties and resolutions on human rights, on the protection of minorities, rights of indigenous peoples, etc., which have already been ratified.
The Cubans know that and I am sure they accept it.
I cannot do anything about it myself, but you are quite right. We need a quick way of educating people, including those who do not obey the rules decided upon in this House.
Mr President, Mrs Roth-Behrendt expressed very many of my own thoughts.
Instead he has defended his own position which was not the one approved in committee.
Hitherto, such information had been supplied on paper and unsystematically, and was of no use to our services; and indeed this was often the fault of Parliament itself.
This will therefore be our rule.
The proposal in paragraph 6 will also be partly accepted because it reaffirms that the time allowed for approving programmes under LEADER+ is a maximum of 5 months.
This is why I should like to see the next report on state aid include some assessment of the effect of such aid on employment, industry and craft businesses in the beneficiary countries.
I can inform Mr Andersson that I will leave for Stockholm on Monday, 6 March, in order to talk to Minister Ringholm, to members of the Swedish parliament, and, if necessary, also to the Prime Minister or other ministers, in order to continue discussions on this matter. I am fully aware that emotions are running high in the political arena in Sweden regarding this issue.
We are well aware of these handicaps, which must be remedied urgently - the structural inflexibility, the excessive mandatory levies.
We are seeking to implement best practice.
This is true, if we think of Russia' s plans in the thirties, but at the start of your mandate, a few months ago, you yourself announced at the Conference of Presidents that you would, however, be presenting a legislative programme, or rather, the major policy lines of the European government of which you are head and in the running of which we are engaged today.
As far as I am concerned, at least, the principle of 'polluter pays' must be applied.
We shall also vote in the future against any proposals to deregulate the financial markets and we call on all the other political groups to do likewise until such time as taxation on investment income is finally harmonised.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is discussing this issue right now but it will be very surprising if its work is completed today. I am basically here to speak to you, as indicated by your agenda, on a new initiative which the Commission is proposing as just one of its responses to the major challenge of institutional reform.
One of these milestones was the meeting in Sintra which I would like to ask Mr Solana about.
Each Member State is principally responsible for defining its responsibilities towards children.
Let me repeat what I have said, we shall be most attentive to the inclusion of urban issues in all structural fund programming.
In the meantime, the conclusions of the General Affairs Council earlier this week have confirmed the message which I have given today.
The White Paper intends to resolve these problems and we therefore support these proposals.
Because tourism can also have a harmful impact on the environment, there needs to be a strategy for damage limitation.
There are, I believe, around 5 000 Kosovar political prisoners held in Serbia at the moment.
What has happened in recent years has brought to our attention the tremendous problems facing not only to the producers of food but also the consumers.
Ever since we have attempted to do something about development cooperation, its effectiveness and quality have been called into question.
Note will be taken of it in the Minutes.
It just remains for me to urge you all to attend the demonstration on Saturday.
Both concern cases with decisions pending before the Court of Justice.
It is clearly no longer suited to the requirements of a modern, multinational organisation.
Frassoni Report (A5-0021/2000)
Without this status, there will only be instability, murders, provocation by Belgrade and it is a matter of urgency that the European Union should come to a decision on this matter.
A simple gesture such as turning on a tap seems to bring water straight from the source.
Both documents, that is the Commission's document and the Ombudsman's draft, cover largely the same ground.
The European Union has already laid the basis for Community legislation on combating discrimination on the grounds of race.
I will give you an example.
Can we, based on the experiences in Macedonia and in four other countries, improve on this?
For the same reason the European Parliament has always called for civil society to be involved in the decision-making processes and in cooperation management, and emphasised the importance of decentralised cooperation.
BSE has certainly not gone away.
For me the question is not whether we should address the question of human rights in China - we have a duty to do so and a legitimate interest in doing so - but rather what is the most effective way of doing this?
This is an exercise in sovereignty, and in democracy for each population and every individual, but to this end it is vital for all parties in the conflict to have the courage to strive for peace and rights, and to recognise the other as its partner and not as its subject to whom concessions must be given.
The first report was widely publicised, formally debated and used - just like the controversy and news leaks which preceded it - to make mincemeat, first of the President of the Commission, and then of the majority of the European Commissioners, even though they had no connection with fraud, mismanagement or nepotism.
It is irresponsible of EU Member States to refuse to renew the embargo.
Perhaps it might be time for us to begin to consider establishing a common environmental authority which could deal with this type of crime.
Women make up half the population, half the strength of the planet.
We understand that it is important that the two institutions - Parliament and Commission - cooperate and work together and that the current cooperation with the Committee on Regional Policy, and in particular the transport group, is magnificent.
It would be appropriate, therefore, to begin by summarising the impact of tourism on the lives of Union citizens and the desirability, in both economic and social terms, of promoting the European tourist industry.
We shall obtain the very opposite of what we want.
We need to conduct a serious analysis of the matter.
Also because I know how many social democrats in this House share our criticism, and not just the economic and financial policy experts.
In terms of balance, or should I say imbalance, I must add that it is to be regretted that Europe is still playing a minor political role in resolving this conflict.
We do so in the awareness that this decision, the very first relating to that area, is actually set in the context of an entirely new phase of our relations with the Balkans.
A further amendment allows the Member States to impose more stringent requirements, in particular for vacuum tanks, if work is done or goods are transported as a priority in temperatures well below -20ºC. This is in the special interest of northern European regions.
That is very much the right approach.
For my part, I do not wish to give up hope.
On one point of detail, I would like to thank Mrs Cederschiöld for having clarified, for example, the concept of so-called temporary copies in her opinion.
Letters to Strasbourg arrive there a bit sooner, but it still takes far too long.
I welcome Commissioner Barnier and the Portuguese Presidency here this afternoon.
This effort was appreciated, even if different views were later expressed as regards the proposals, and moreover, Mr President-in-Office, you also expressed different views.
I hope that Parliament will soon have the authority to legislate on pensions.
Can you say whether or not the specific issue of investment in applicant countries has featured in any of the discussions to date to which you have been referring?
It also, of course, finds indirect expression in the question.
The Commission is acting correctly if, on a particular point, it believes it must add to its opinion which covers many institutional questions. I am not yet sure that we will do this on Article 7.
Like Mrs Van Lancker, I am a product of such a measure.
It makes no sense for any worker within the Schengen area, since he or she will already have undergone a screening process in order to enter the first Member State, and the second Member State would be justified in rejecting ex ante the entry of that worker into its territory.
But that does not take away from the fact that the report' s importance mainly lies in the fact that we are developing a strategy and that there is a reasonable chance that it can make a significant contribution in Lisbon.
The industry is located in some of Europe' s most peripheral communities providing an economic lifeline to those communities.
Which is why, unless they are accompanied by clear political solutions which respect borders and autonomy and all the democratic guarantees, all these plans on paper will lead to new blood-letting in the Balkans.
With regard to foreign affairs, I believe that the majority of points which we have included in the resolution accurately illustrate the real situation and hardly invite optimism, Mr President. Issues such as the abolition of the death penalty, the torture which still goes on in many supposedly democratic countries or the situation of minorities in many parts of the world, demand a clear, visible and effective response from the European Union.
It concerns the issue of recycling costs.
It is characteristic that the report congratulates FYROM on the constructive stance it maintained during the NATO attack, eulogises its pacifist role because it allowed its territory to be used as a base for NATO forces, but, of course, remains silent about the indignation of its people, which was manifested by mass demonstrations during the NATO bombardments.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would first like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work and for having taken due account of the proposed amendments while the committee was debating it.
My second point relates to discussion about competition and the social market economy, although I am not going to talk about market failure just now.
Or perhaps people are not concerned with creating the same conditions of access to the postal services for all, but are thinking only of the capital employment conditions for companies in large conglomerations.
We are seeking views by the end of April on what we envisage.
For its part, the European Union, with its hypocritical professions of interest in freedom and human rights, has never been moved by the drama of the Cypriot people, by the problem of Greek and Turkish Cypriot refugees, by the enforced change of the population composition in the north of Cyprus, or by the wholesale settlement of colonists by Turkey in the occupied areas.
To be successful we have to ensure that our economic policy, our employment policy and our social protection policy in its broadest sense, are integrated and that we deal with them as a whole.
The Commission does not have a mandate to impose any limits on decisions taken by any country in terms of energy production, including the nuclear option.
Anyone who lets men happily climb the career ladder and worries only about childcare places without fighting against the way in which the work of reproduction is shared out unevenly has not - and unfortunately that includes women - understood the concept of mainstreaming!
First: we need reasonable deregulation of the railway sector because we want to shift freight from the roads to the railways.
In fact, a reservoir containing cyanide has just burst its banks in Romania, threatening aquifers which supply the population of Yugoslavia.
I will give you one example of this.
Allow me to say first that what we are talking about is an environmental catastrophe, which also impacts on the economy and threatens livelihoods.
But we need that reform process.
It is systematic monitoring which will reveal this.
It is also important to underline the connection between competition policy and consumer protection.
It is therefore not out of the question that these issues, which crop up again and again, and which are passed from one conference to another, may be addressed.
The early thoughts of Parliament on this consultative idea would be especially welcome.
I fully endorse the philosophy and the principles behind these decisions.
For the Commission this requires that action in the tourism field must be tightly linked to measures promoting the take-up of information communication technology by the tourism industry, in particular by the innovation and innovative society technological programmes which are both within my competence.
First of all, I am sure that the honourable Member recognises that over the period of the 1990s the government in Belgrade underfunded the health service in Kosovo, and many Albanians found that they were not really receiving any health care at all.
The Commission and the Committee of Independent Experts are in favour of completely doing away with ex ante financial control.
It creates and maintains interpersonal relationships.
If other sources of finance were to be investigated for each project, more resources would, moreover, be required than are available in the present situation.
The texts before us today are old and were already old when they reached this House. This was because they were substantially amended during the Finnish Presidency.
I do not want to and cannot go into too much detail, Mr President, given the time constraints and also the interpreters' fees.
These areas are mutually dependent upon one another.
Mr President of the Commission, this is indeed an historic moment for Parliament, a five-year programme following the crisis of the Commission.
My last point concerns the future Palestinian State.
Mr President, the various motions for resolutions tabled in Parliament more or less represent the situation in the Middle East.
What I asked and what I am once again asking is the following: what are the views of the Portuguese Presidency on, for example, the appeals made by the network to combat poverty and exclusion, the division of work and social security, the implementation of tax policies, particularly for speculative capital, and the policy of redistributing wealth?
I fear that we are now moving in the opposite direction, towards European exclusiveness and apartheid.
In addition, the agreements with the EU will act as an anchor.
In a world where surely less regulation is the key, we in this House seem to believe that we can add more regulation and costs on business and that they will stay within the European Union, untempted by other locations elsewhere where there are fewer burdens.
Inertia would only be born of anxiety and we are doing everything we can in terms of support and training to diminish the possibility of that occurring.
My colleague Poul Nielson is literally on his way to Mozambique this afternoon and evening together with the Portuguese Secretary of State to assess the situation on the ground.
A flexible EU which concentrates on fewer but important areas and which respects national differences and national democracy has a better chance of embracing a significantly greater number of countries.
The EU must therefore mobilise resources immediately and effectively, in terms of quantity as well as quality, and it must employ the most rapid and appropriate means of achieving this.
Secondly, we must guarantee that the citizens are not faced with reduced postal services.
We hope to conduct this initiative in cooperation with the Member States and in conjunction with the European Parliament.
It has been said before, and we have discussed this between ourselves on various occasions, that culture is, of course, extremely important as an area unto itself - I would like to stress this once again - but also as the instrument par excellence for furthering the European idea.
But we also say: we want to defend this European Community of tolerance, which is why a common foreign, security and defence policy is so important.
Forty years on, this proposal has again been placed on the table and I am certain that it will create room for manoeuvre for the monopolies, to the detriment of Europe' s consumers.
One condition is that money should be given to those who will make sensible use of it and not to those who might use it for pursuing other aims.
I would like to hear what Commissioner Monti has to say about that.
(Parliament approved the request)
So what should we do?
Before military intervention by NATO, Milosevic' s policy for Kosovo was certainly to be condemned, and the demands of the non-violent forces of the Rugovo era for the Kosovar regions to be autonomous were justified.
The Commission is of the view that it is premature to amend the rules currently laid down by Directive 70/524 on genetically modified additives at this stage.
This indeed, is the aim of the sixth Steel Aid Code, but at the same time it is important to avoid any infringement of the conditions of competition and any serious disturbance of the markets, hence the importance of regulating such aid.
Those who are currently coming to the fore in Europe based on fear will win the day.
Today, they would have everything to lose from the communitarisation of foreign policy, and I believe that they are working with that in mind.
We must also insist that the cost is borne wholly or largely by the manufacturer, as stipulated in the common position.
We are also concerned with the question of cooperation.
If national governments had in their hearts - as the European Union has in its heart with this directive - the proliferation of money earned during the course of a working life, the pensions time bomb would already have been defused.
In the case of Sweden, the instrument of excise taxes is indeed used to reduce the consumption of alcohol.
We want to maintain the clear commitment and the responsibility of each Member State, which is made possible by its intergovernmental nature.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
As far as the citizens are concerned, it is what a regulation can do for them that matters.
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 aim to ensure that financial information is forwarded continuously to the budgetary authority.
The Tobin tax will bring some transparency to a very obscure question.
Thank you, Commissioner.
I find that encouraging and I look forward to further discussions with them and other Members of Parliament in relation to the issues that they raised.
The Commission has also been closely associated with the production of the recent report published by the United Nations environment programme - Balkan Task Force.
Still on judicial cooperation, considerable progress has been made on the legal protection of the euro, and the European Parliament is being consulted on a framework decision which is of fundamental strategic importance.
The ingredients of this policy are well known. They are the stimulation of public and private investment, increased investment in research, education and training and the promotion of the spirit of enterprise.
Flora defended herself, and asked Serbs and Albanians to shake hands.
Anyone who is English or British or follows cricket knows what a scoreboard is.
The concentration of economic and social problems in certain urban areas calls for targeted intervention taking full account of the complexity of the problems involved.
Criminal law is part of each individual nation' s own cultural tradition, and it is very difficult to arrive at common definitions of what is to be understood by these basic legal concepts.
Where are the shipowners and those who order the shipments when these disasters occur?
In the case of a non-Schengen state, in the last paragraph of Amendment No 22, that possibility is contemplated, and is perfectly expressed, and I believe this provides greater legal security.
Without a successful European economy we cannot meet the challenges ahead, particularly of enlargement.
The laws against racism must be harmonised.
The legislative authority, Council and Parliament, should be equal.
We are therefore unable to approve the development of strand IIIC of the Community initiative encouraging interregional cooperation under the responsibility of the Commission and sidelining the Member States.
But we must also hold up the mirror to ourselves and recognise our own inadequacies.
I do not need to remind you that consumer confidence in Europe's food safety regime has been badly affected by the crises and alerts of recent years and months.
I mean the attitude where a person wants to get on in life, whether he or she is an employee, the owner of a business or an official.
What can the Members of the European Parliament do when faced with such a widespread disaster?
Today's decision not to renew the embargo is extremely dangerous considering the situation there.
I hope this is not an omen for this Sintra Agreement.
We were told that the curtain was closed so that you would not have your back to the light and to improve the lighting during debates.
Soon, in May, the European Commission intends to present a communication on the development of the role of human rights and democratisation in the Union' s external relations.
And you have used your personal experience to show us that your European identity was not decreed; it was a spontaneous and natural move.
In our society there is no such thing as zero-risk, but we must at least ensure the greatest possible levels of safety.
It is practically certain that, with the raft of proposed measures and actions, it should be possible to approach the objective of a 12% renewable energy share by 2010, doubling the current rate, as long as the appropriations including state appropriations are made available.
And we are not just talking about the concrete impact of our common policies, tourism, the environment, agriculture, fisheries and industry.
However, Mr Decourrière does show some common sense by denouncing the failings of the Brussels technocrats.
In any case, the authoritative version is always, of course, the original language version.
It is also important that a debate is held where the long-term effects of mining in this region are discussed and weighed up in economic, ecological and social terms.
A declared belief in human rights, democracy and the rule of law, in an honest reappraisal of Austria' s role in the past, in passing on information on the gravest crime against humanity in the 20th century, the holocaust, will also be reflected in the fundamental accord underlying a future coalition government between the ÖVP and FPÖ.
Mr Cox, Mr Hänsch, would this be acceptable to you?
The government of Mozambique has appealed for humanitarian aid from third countries.
This Forum stands for a worldwide vision.
However, we must stress that it is vital for approval to be given as soon as possible to the strategy for the new millennium, so as to give a fresh impetus, while preserving continuity, to the work done under the previous action plan.
The agreement also offers a good framework to underpin the mutually reinforcing effects of trade cooperation and development aid.
I agree with the rapporteur and am able to say that the Environment Committee has asked the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to agree to the Commission proposal.
Even daring to refer to the defence of a 'European social model' is a shamefaced lie because the more the EU combats the United States, the more it becomes its clone.
Lastly, I am highly critical of the fact that the directive is not accompanied by a study of its impact.
Indeed, they must set in place the institutional conditions needed to launch a tangible and efficient cooperation process in the field of law - a process that must nevertheless cover all the stages needed to prevent the untimely impositions that are detrimental to legitimate national prescriptions in the field of justice, over which Member States have sovereign powers, and above all to prevent impositions that result in riding roughshod over basic civil rights.
The FPÖ party is established in Austria' s political landscape.
In the Union, sugar is produced from sugar beet.
Public health and the supply of drinking water are at stake, as are biological quality and diversity and the conservation of rural areas and species.
I wholly endorse what the Committee on Budgets had to say on financing and believe that we should remind the Commission that it really must press other donors to at long last pay their way.
I regret this, but the vote has already been taken and the decision is made so let us leave the matter there.
I also want to mention the death penalty.
There is as yet no federal European tax.
You will remember that we decided with great expectations here in the European Parliament in December that Eurodac would become a reality as a regulation and as a system, as a Community instrument which we urgently need in order to prevent multiple asylum applications, in order to have an instrument to fight illegality and, above all, in order to set out clearly which Member State was responsible for implementing the asylum procedure.
Mr President, it therefore seems worthwhile and necessary to focus attention on both national and regional authorities, especially in connection with boosting employment.
First of all, civil society.
However, such use of an agreement outside its specific scope cannot be imposed on the two sides of industry without a legal basis.
The next great challenge is to re-launch the new round of world trade negotiations that failed to take off last December in Seattle.
This, Madam President, is the only way forward which we therefore fully support.
Finally, Mr Solana, I would just like to ask you what point there is in having the much heralded policy planning and early warning cell in the Council Secretariat if still we are taken by surprise by yet another humanitarian catastrophe.
It is, of course, a fact that the EU countries have different ways of organising social policy.
Mr President, I do not agree with this chorus of satisfaction expressed by my colleagues, who are delighted about the relaxing of a directive that respects the principle of precaution and which takes measures to protect consumers' health.
I am thinking of technological research and development, infrastructure provision and quality, human resources potential, small and medium-sized businesses and direct investment from abroad.
I should, of course, like to take this opportunity to say that I appreciate the role played by the European Parliament' s Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, particularly its chair.
It was intended that the study should indicate monthly closures to purse seine, in order that the closures would be effective for the conservation of bluefin stock.
The after-shocks can still be felt.
Eliminating all remaining barriers to imports, tariff barriers and quotas and, just as important, non-tariff barriers, such as Mrs Maij-Weggen mentioned in her speech - eliminating these barriers would do more than any amount of development aid to secure for developing countries the economic progress which both we and they desire.
Nevertheless, we must stress that many people are aware, as they were yesterday too, of the risk that enlargement could compromise the original plan for the construction of a political Europe, a risk that was, moreover, indicated in an interview that surely escaped no one' s attention, owing to the authority of the person being interviewed - Jacques Delors.
I do not know, Mr Martin. It will depend on the decision taken by the Council.
I have used chemical strategy as a good example of an area in which we need to do this.
Firstly, the whole system is obscure.
. (DE) Mr Cohn-Bendit, I do not think that the European Parliament has any business intervening to such a huge extent in a country' s domestic politics, in the way that you are doing.
This House will today approve a very important and appropriate joint motion for a resolution tabled by several groups.
My conclusion is therefore: make sure that there is competition in the remaining 20 per cent of the market, too.
The consumer must remain free to make a fully informed decision.
An alternative to the European Public Prosecutor could be Eurojust, as proposed at the last Summit.
As I say, our amendments concern transparency, and I should like to emphasise the amendment which urges the Commission to propose uniform criteria and conditions for the type of state aids we consider to be lawful, specifically in order to ensure that companies can predict what their situation will be.
As he said, fish farming is a critically significant source of employment in remote parts of rural Scotland and at a time when the rural areas of Scotland are suffering their worst recession in over a hundred years, the aquaculture industry provides an essential boost to the rural economy on which many thousands of direct and indirect jobs depend.
I would also like to thank you for allowing us to sample your British sense of humour in the course of our dealings with this very difficult issue, for it makes things a little more interesting.
By failing to distinguish countries and regions where water is abundant, and is therefore not a problem, from regions where drought and low rainfall make it a scarce commodity, stifling the chances of any economic and social development, we are perverting the ecological principle and turning it into a weapon.
Even if we hear nothing else, we know that is going in the right direction in terms of the reforms that we want to see.
We will then see, at ministerial level, how we can follow this up.
We would also like a clear job description for each European official so that an official with conscientious objections can more easily object to tasks which are unethical or unlawful.
I thank the President-in-Office for his reply.
The man who is accused of genocide and who ought to be brought before the war crimes tribunal in the Hague still goes free.
Unless we require that the owners of the cargo be held liable, we will never, in my opinion, resolve these problems.
This leaves it wide open to abuse.
We would also underline the importance of the way in which the strategy is handled. On the one hand, it would be useful to have guidelines and a process styled on Luxembourg, but we also think it is important, as is already mentioned by Mrs Van Lancker, that guidelines are drafted to accommodate less typical work scenarios, such as sole traders, etc.
There are a number of sound amendments.
We can submit motions for this together with you.
I feel duty bound to publicly denounce the fact that fishing is absent from the programme which you have presented to us.
This relates in particular to the intended agenda, particularly as regards the Amsterdam leftovers, which suggests that unacceptable inner cabinets will be created in the future. This also identifies areas relating to the second and third pillars, which tend to be reflected in an undesirable militarisation of the European Union.
And so, Mr Seppänen, I shall also mention at this point, speaking of the national level, the link with the Cohesion Fund.
It is very far from being that simple, rather we are going to have to make concentrated efforts, during talks with both communities, to encourage them to reach an understanding.
In any event, speaking now as a Greek, I want to tell some of the speakers I listened to earlier that much of what was said is fixated on other times and places.
As the Commissioner said, and I agree with him, it is a matter of political decision.
In particular, we should be updating the areas where human rights need to be safeguarded.
In this case, which is perhaps the most common use of derivatives by asset managers, you reduce your potential reward but you also reduce your potential risk.
I think it is important to keep it as a relatively clearly defined discipline of trying to reduce inconsistencies where they really exist, and we certainly do have them.
I therefore propose to submit the Minutes for your approval tomorrow morning, since obviously you do not have them and I must apologise for this.
On Saturday morning I will meet with all the Ministers for Home Affairs of the fifteen Member States to try and make them see the need to mobilise a police force as well.
The insertion of Article 13, which was referred to during the debate, dealing with non-discrimination in the Treaty establishing the European Community, is one of the most significant changes of the last revision of the Treaties.
We want to talk about coherence.
We must resolutely switch from our present, rather bureaucratic approach which we are all familiar with - it pervades our development cooperation for example - to a cooperation for peace.
Should the European Union fail to take action, then Member States would be obliged to amend their national legislation for a very brief period, until the CEN completes its work, which would cause unnecessary cost and uncertainty.
The directive quite obviously provides too extended a time frame within which time is to be spent measuring every single one of the approximately 100,000 chemicals in circulation.
In this respect, what the Commission says about boosting Europe' s voice is important.
In a wider context, the priorities, as I see it, are to convert poor countries' debt into programmes for poverty eradication and sustainable development, as well as control of fraud and corruption.
From that point of view, the proposed facility is a two-phase aid facility and the second tranche must be released as soon as the donors have made clear their interest.
Yet their lack of interest and involvement and sometimes even their distaste for all things political requires us to take specific action to tackle their problems.
Even if scrapie cannot be passed on to human beings, the connection with BSE has still not been clarified, as I have already said.
Yet preaching the benefits of free trade to the developing countries is not enough.
It is a question of objectives that must be pursued as a priority.
Mr Swoboda, I can confirm what you have just said and there is, in fact, a printing error.
Recourse to the precautionary principle
This proposal has no financial consequences for the Community budget.
That being so, I believe the final result will be better.
Your question on the common agricultural policy is one which we take very seriously and which should always be considered in this House' s discussions, because in the future we are likely to discuss this issue at great length.
Why institute an oil boycott against Haiti and not against Burma, where an elected President is imprisoned, parliament has been sent home and some of the MPs have been put in jail or even murdered?
Madam President, despite the protests by the international press, we still do not know the fate of Mr Andrey Babitsky, the courageous Russian journalist who has worked intensively to ensure free and independent information on the ordeal of the civilian population of Chechnya and the destruction of the city of Grozny.
How do you aim to eradicate homophobia, racism and sexism?
In that context a noteworthy and important step forward is the treaty' s treatment of the right of reproduction.
I am sure that Commissioner Vitorino will make certain that is so.
Pursuant to Article 29 of the EU Treaty, the Union' s objective is 'to provide citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice by developing common action among the Member States in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and by preventing and combating racism and xenophobia' .
Hence the need for the most coherent European human rights policy possible, which of course means that we need to adopt clear and unambiguous positions where we consider a state of affairs to be unacceptable, and I have in mind, in particular, the references that many Members have made to China.
It is impossible to talk about East Timor without mentioning the tens of thousands of Timorese refugees living on Indonesian soil in inhumane conditions, under the control of Indonesian soldiers and militias, and being used as bargaining chips.
I hope that she will come to take pride in the child for which she has at least part parentage.
Thank you, Mr President.
But this also serves to make a claim, on the part of the European Union, for a degree of political participation in the process which is consistent with its economic contribution - we do not have aspirations to be bankers - and which will be suitably visible to the public.
We greatly welcome it, just as we welcomed the original report that it was based on, the report of the high-level working group which was set up by the European Commission.
We are also of the opinion that Community funds should be set aside to fund these activities.
We shall then be able to achieve an environmentally respectable result.
This being the case, let me now come to the proposals made in the report.
In this case, the Commission proposes to seek further clarification from the Irish authorities on the up-to-date position on the compensatory measures and possible problems with the mechanical removal of cord grass.
Indeed, it is often stated that one of the general objectives of the common fisheries policy shall be to protect and conserve living marine aquatic resources.
Firstly, however, I would like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Langen, for the truly excellent work he has done on this report.
Madam President, until now we believed that the European Union was, according to the Treaty of Rome and the Treaty of Paris founding the European Communities, and subsequently the Union, an association of free, independent, sovereign states.
I had discussions with municipal leaders from both communities, including the leader of the Albanian side who had himself in the past been a doctor and was generally recognised for the medical work he had done during the hostilities and subsequently.
We hope that it will at least revisit the aspects that we have mentioned.
However, today we are concerned to learn that other representatives of the Union seem to have turned their backs on the Union' s democratic role.
We believe that this has created the framework for a positive outcome.
So we are now experiencing the same thing that happened 20 years ago with the Amoco Cadiz; a wreck on the North coast, a wreck on the South coast, a wreck on the West coast.
We would, at the same time, like to insist on other things.
Finally, we, as British Conservatives, are looking for a change in direction, towards the development of an independent competition authority.
On various occasions the European Union has reiterated to the Chinese authorities its disappointment with the results of the dialogue, and has stressed that it hoped for better outcomes in certain more sensitive areas.
The main danger awaiting us in the medium term is not inflation but deflation caused by the collapse of the speculative bubbles on the international financial markets.
This is not our opinion.
I want to see a genuine internal market operating in the control arena.
All in all, INTERREG, the International Fund for Ireland and the Peace and Reconciliation programme have all played an important role in the developing peace process.
First, I must stress that the debate about social protection issues began several years ago among the European bodies and since 1995 there has been the first statement entitled: "The future of social protection" and there have been statements from the European Parliament, those of Mrs Weiler and Mr Pronk.
Of course, the European Central Bank has been looking into the matter for a very long time.
For me as a Finn, and a member who has been active in matters concerning agriculture and the health and transportation of animals, it is most important that those EU states where TSEs do not occur at all will in the future too be guaranteed the right to inspect as fully as is necessary the transportation of live animals.
It seems that the Albania factor is being underestimated.
This is not the Union' s only contribution.
The UN, however, have pledged to dispatch a police force of 4 800.
What we need the Commission to do as a matter of urgency is to approve national aid, so as to avoid the competition issue being raised again at a later date.
Such distortions in competition are not about environmental protection; they simply affect investment potential and the jobs of those building cars in Europe.
The government of the United States, or of Israel?
The second aspect of this new model for development policies relates to the need for a more integrated approach to development.
Even now, the rivers in Brittany are eutrophying and this is damaging tourism.
In this sense, there is therefore a serious risk that some idiot will decide that the new geopolitical balance of power in the Caucasus calls for a nearby country with weapons grade nuclear technology.
America and south-east Asia are having a much worse time of it as far as climate and storms go.
Mr Prodi secured positive comments for a proposal which would otherwise have been met with criticism, for the new draft regulation presents as progress the fact that it will now be possible to grant right of access to documents in the Commission' s possession. There follows, however, a long, long list of exceptions, and there is legal entitlement to confidentiality in regard to those exceptions.
It has been calculated that the actual cost of carrying a letter from Edinburgh to the Central Highlands is about ten times that of carrying the same letter across London.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, following the same line as Mrs Maij-Weggen, I believe that we have a number of representatives here who all feel passionate about contributing to this debate.
May I also add that I hope to be in Alicante myself at the end of May to speak at a conference.
Secondly, Cuba.
The issue of the threat to the traditional legal system in Ireland and the UK needs to be addressed.
The framework conditions have changed in that the Helsinki decisions made a whole range of things possible that were not possible hitherto, and, above all, in that the political strategies employed by the parties concerned have changed beyond recognition.
Why has there been no fire drill, either in the Brussels Parliament buildings or the Strasbourg Parliament buildings?
We need to aim for dangerous substances to be phased out by 2020.
(SV) This is a very important question.
A quota management system such as that existing in New Zealand since 1986 is one possible alternative.
No, to my mind this would only serve to deepen the credibility crisis facing the Union.
It is therefore essential for the various directives on equality to be complied with and for the Council, the Commission and each Member State strictly to respect the commitments they have made, particularly at the Beijing Conference.
I believe that we can and must improve the existing legislation in this regard.
Since the European Parliament chose to vote on a text that expressly resorted to the quota policy which my report for an opinion had attempted to denounce in no uncertain terms, and in spite of the general approach which I approve for the most part, I can do no other than abstain from the vote on Mrs McNally' s report.
Here we must ensure that the good schemes, those which are really excellent, are then somehow transferred into rural development policy to safeguard the future of this laudable work.
As I made clear in the hearings last September and on other occasions, we are at one in the belief that there is value in defining the best possible mechanisms for this purpose although obviously we all hope that it will rarely be needed.
I can only say again that Commissioner Bolkestein will be able to address all the concerns on Monday, in the appropriate committee, more competently and in much more detail.
Has the time come for the Turkish Government to lift the economic blockade of Armenia?
I remember talking about community policing to some American police experts and saying 'What in your view is the ideal community police officer' and the reply was 'a black grandmother' .
We are certainly very much aware that this factor is seriously compromising Mr Kouchner' s work and the normalisation of administrative structures in Kosovo, especially as regards judicial structures and police cover.
I would like to finish off by making an important point for small and medium-sized businesses.
The important role of the increasingly parliamentary Joint Assembly in strengthening relations between the European Union and the ACP countries needs to be stressed.
At the same time, we think it is obvious that those who commit crimes against the EU must be able to be held accountable in an effective way.
Unless we wish to act like megalomaniacs, we cannot in the course of one presidency perform an exhaustive inventory of all possible and imaginary situations relating to all the enormous issues we face, particularly in the area of external relations.
He says some of them have been satisfied and others have not.
I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
The level of practical assistance from the Community and from the Member States has been pathetic.
The Commissioner also more than hinted, of course, that a lot of consideration was being given to bringing the whole issue of the Danish early retirement pension scheme before the Court of Justice in Luxembourg, specifically on the grounds that the scheme actually discriminates against non-Danish wage earners who are unable to fulfil the conditions, due to the fact that they have not been in paid work for the period required under the Danish system.
In view of the Montreal Protocol on Genetically Modified Organisms (GMOs), I welcome the fact that the rapporteur has included these issues in his report, and I have therefore voted in favour of it.
The problems in Europe' s urban areas are getting worse; fortunately, we now have consensus with the Commission.
This included a number of interim conditions valid until 1 January 1999.
I would compare the situation with an earlier generation' s introduction of the Plimsoll line, a marking which was introduced to prevent insurance fraud involving inferior vessels.
Mr President, as you know, all of our countries abolished the death penalty years ago, but with nearly a thousand suicides a year in our prisons, they have not really abolished it?
There is no consciously adopted position in the WIPO Treaty on temporary copies.
There is no proposal to change that and under the proposed new regime there is no question of diseased fish being sold.
I will follow very closely the results of this research and take it fully into account in future legislative proposals.
In our view, however, in both respects, greater room for manoeuvre should be left to the administration of the United Nations which, on the ground, is more aware of the reality than we are.
However, I come from an area in Northern Germany where the forestry industry predominates and I can tell you that we are already feeling the effects of the immense damage.
And if Europe wants to be left behind, left behind to stagnation and to unemployment and to statism and to corporatism, than yes, vote against this report tomorrow.
Let us not deceive ourselves: a Europe, one part of which is being held back because of frictions, misinterpretations and conflicts, and because of nationalistic clashes, will never be a Europe that has brought its own house to the level it wants.
The Commission' s records leave a great deal to be desired.
I have not heard that suggestion before, but it is an important point and I will certainly investigate it when I am there.
It is, therefore, conceivable that the European Union will soon be taking a sledgehammer to crack a nut and that the rights of the citizen will vanish in the dust.
. (DA) Mr President, I should like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and also to thank the Joint Assembly for its work in 1999.
The importance of smooth-running, comprehensible work cannot possibly be emphasised enough.
- (SV) The parliamentary process concerning this question has been confusing, to say the least.
Having made these general observations, I should like to focus on your main comments with regard to INTERREG.
May I thank Mr Andersson for the supplement to his first question and may I answer that question as follows?
The Committee of Wise Men supports this.
In this respect, Mr President of the Commission, I too should like to address the issue of globalisation which you speculated on and how it is perceived by large segments of the population.
Madam President, I too am delighted that we are having this debate. I only regret that it has been so long in coming.
In my opinion, the European Union can only accept Malta if it is guaranteed that the Maltese flag will sail without an accident in future.
The essential criterion is the rights of citizens with regard to the European institutions, as contained in the European project enshrined in the Treaties of the European Union.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Patten.
On behalf of all the officials of the Commission and my predecessor, Mrs Wulf-Mathies, I must inform you that we were very alert to the evaluation made by this House and by yourself.
I am most grateful to the Commissioner for his plain talking today and I would ask the Commission to force the pace now.
Because it is political it is more complex.
The officials responsible for financial control should be deployed on a decentralised basis, that is, in the operational Directorates-General, amongst those of their colleagues that spend the money, so that they are immediately available when problems arise and so as to render the checks less ponderous and time-consuming.
They do not want any more promises that we then fail to keep, or to see any efforts that we then fail to follow through.
I would like to remind those who seek to eliminate the right of small Member States to nominate a European Commissioner that the United States of America gives smaller states the same recognition as larger states in the United States Senate.
We need more dialogue, not just with each other but also with civil society.
It is clear that we need to see a change in the Financial Regulation.
Lastly, I believe - and this is also the presidency' s intention - that we should continue to cooperate actively with the United Nations, given the skilful, intelligent and capable way in which the Secretary-General, and the UN organisation in general, have conducted these discussions, and in particular the way they have endeavoured to help to harmonise the two parties' positions.
I believe I am one of the few members of this Parliament to have stood beside a production line and assembled cars.
Our cities are also of decisive importance for Europe' s economy.
One of the programme's aims is to develop and supervise methods, strategies and measures for promoting gender equality in the decision-making process and in positions of responsibility.
What we need are 60 000 civilian policemen and women in order to try and deal with these situations.
This directive contains a number of very positive elements which are worth highlighting.
Within the framework of the action plan, each individual directorate general is to prepare its own programme of measures.
Valuable experiences were gained, and also the knowledge that we cannot master such environmental disasters using state-of-the-art technology alone.
We have had question times to the Council and the Commission and to the ACP Council, and I would like to thank those institutions for their interest in our work.
Where would Europe' s tourism industry be without the richness of our culture?
I am looking at all those of you who have not exactly been at the forefront of the environmental movement.
Another major criticism of the text concerns secondary law.
Our group will, at any rate, do this as far as possible - for environmental reasons and because we have this directive which is well-balanced and encompasses a whole range of issues and difficulties including, for example, the way in which the costs are to be distributed.
Malta is entering the accession negotiations.
Applying the precautionary principle does not, therefore, automatically imply a ban.
Secondly, we must focus today on one specific aspect of this terrible environmental disaster, namely its effect on the fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected regions.
We consider the competition policy to be responsible for all this and are totally opposed to it.
We must move away from the outmoded federalist schemes promoted by those whose every idea on European matters comes from the Memoires of Jean Monnet.
Some may take the view that it would be inappropriate for Parliament or Members of Parliament - or indeed Parliament nominees - to be members of the board.
Most of those who have been working on the directive to date have been lawyers.
Hope of improvement threatens to be nipped in the bud if the Commission keeps refusing to look into the mirror.
Could you please make sure that French-speaking Members of this House know that the word entreprises is not correct.
We support Europe, a Europe which does honour to all the actions that have brought us to this point, a Europe which respects the Treaties and the law and a Europe which needs Austria.
Although her identity was noted and her position as a Member of the European Parliament was very apparent, she was still held in custody all day.
- I do not quite understand what the Commissioner said.
More or less each of the 50 states in the US has two elected positions in the United States Senate, regardless of its population.
However, there are some amendments which attempt to help the countries of the south, specifically Amendment No 43 which, with regard to the recuperation of costs, also indicates that Member States must take into account the social and environmental conditions of the countries when it comes to decision making.
Equally, I am saddened by the announcement made by Goodyear that has prompted this resolution.
Now that is where the difficulties begin, because criminal law comes under national sovereignty and the Treaty of Maastricht contains no specific provision covering this situation for the euro - so as not to frighten the voters by over-egging the pudding.
The outcome of the discussions, as well as of the in-depth investigations which are being carried out in this area, are now being examined by the Commission.
This is what we are today asking the Commissioner for.
The key goals remain the prevention from further pollution of ground and surface water, the protection of eco systems, the promotion of the sustainable use of water, the control of floods and droughts and the termination of discharging dangerous substances into surface water.
I am not able to comment on the availability of commercial insurance.
Following all of the research, the meeting agreed to a selective closure rather than a general prohibition of fishing for tuna in the Mediterranean with purse seine during the period 1 August to 31 August.
What now needs to be done, and this was the reason for the consultations and discussions between the Commission and the Danish Government, and with other governments, is to find the best way forward, so that something which is decided at European level by all the Member States, and which constitutes a general framework, can also include workers posted to Denmark from other countries.
The electoral system which corresponds most closely to this model is the one-for-one system, as is being applied in Sweden on a voluntary basis.
The Commission is also preparing a medium-term Community response combining NGO co-financing with European Development Fund operations to help Mozambique to respond to the crisis situation in re-establishing the rapid pace of growth that Mozambique had worked so hard to achieve.
If the knowledge of the facts and this debate and the arguments are as we say, and I think that they are right, then to take up another six months of the Commission' s time and occasion uncertainty on the financial and capital markets would be irresponsible.
This courageous stance turns a new page in the construction of Europe.
The Food Safety Authority's situation is quite different.
The fact that we are stressing this is all the more important because, as you know, we essentially disagree with the policies made by Europe, with its economic and social policies, its democratic deficit and the Member States' involvement in the terrible war in the Balkans.
What role will aid from the Structural Funds play, on the other hand, in the promotion of renewable energy?
It is only fair and right for them to be able to access EQUAL in the same way as everyone else.
This amendment is completely unacceptable and inappropriate as it seeks not only to retain the requirement for immediate compulsory slaughter of all fish but also to prevent any fish, whether diseased or not, from an affected farm from being sold and I must emphasise that under current policy no diseased fish are sold.
Mr Dupuis, first of all I attach a great deal of importance in my public life to the word 'citizen' .
That is, without doubt, too short, too sweet and too little.
This is both propaganda by the party and propaganda by the candidates, financed by the European Union, the CSF.
I appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, not to vote in favour of the proposal tomorrow to moderate the contents of point 4, to prevent gender democracy from being discussed at the Intergovernmental Conference.
Those who own the monetary assets are currently amassing huge fortunes which are again screaming out to be reinvested.
Mr President, Commissioner, my contribution to today' s debate concerns the steel aid code, that is the state aid in Europe granted in accordance with this code and which was assessed by the Commission.
The interlinking of the EU institutions, the responsibilities of the Member States and the local and regional authorities is all very well.
The European Union must leave fish for local fishermen to feed local populations instead of systematically destroying maritime resources through intensive fisheries.
In our view, the main purpose of the proposal for a regulation is to update the definitions and the assessments of some of the economic operations involved in the calculation of deficits, as reflected in the Treaty establishing the European Community, the Treaty of Maastricht, which lays down the maximum percentages which the government deficit must not exceed as a ratio of GDP at market prices in the various Member States.
That does not mean that we do not still have huge efforts to make in order to improve water protection yet further and maintain the quality of water and ground water and this will doubtless cost a great deal of money.
Equally, unemployment levels in the worst affected regions barely fell at all, indeed they rose in some cases.
I would also like to say that the European Parliament' s participation in the preparatory work is important in establishing coherent European Union positions on various different issues, and that the presidency therefore naturally welcomes all the various suggestions and in particular all the contributions made through the resolutions which have been presented.
Madam President, has my vote been counted? I was unable to vote electronically, since I do not have a card.
Firstly the agreement on political issues.
For example, to accept new roads is to accept new pollution within the European Union. This goes totally against the policies which we are proposing to fight greenhouse gas emissions, for example.
It specifies the necessary coordination between LEADER + and Community cooperation and partnership programmes such as INTERREG, PHARE, Sapard or MEDA.
We must therefore proceed with caution with regard to a document like the one from the Council which, as the rapporteur himself has underlined, now claims, after years of discussion, to have found a universal solution in the space of a few months.
All the resolutions submitted express the sincere wish for greater European involvement in the peace process.
Mr President, I am very pleased to see URBAN orientated towards a more integrated approach which attempts to solve interrelated problems.
There are two points which have not been seriously mentioned and which I should just like to mention here finally.
We cannot, of course, talk about foreign policy without mentioning Chechnya.
And considering how long this Chamber has been trying to introduce a framework directive of this kind, I am pleased to be present here today, and I would like to congratulate Mrs Lienemann on being in the happy position of presenting this report to us.
They must be implemented without delay.
Drug dealing in particular fuels insecurity and delinquency.
Various local authorities around the North Sea provide a prime example of this.
Bearing in mind that the conference of donors for the stability pact is constantly being postponed - it is now set for the end of March - that no one knows which projects are actually in the pipeline, that one cannot tell how things can actually be implemented, and there is a steady stream of new press conferences, this does not appear to be the way to restore peace and reconciliation amongst peoples to this region of Europe!
The proposal will take account of the studies undertaken and in particular look at such issues as universal service, to which I will come back in a second.
We will want to share with Parliament, as vicars say, our views on how that spending programme to support human rights can be best focused and best targeted in the years ahead.
The measure which we should be taking is part of the resolution before us here today.
I again refer to what I said earlier in relation to this and assure her and the House that it would be entirely inappropriate for the Commission to seek to justify any measure based on Article 37 merely by excluding from the provision any reference to public health.
So the point I want to make is that all these things are intimately related.
Following the attack in Hadera on Monday, we must repeat our condemnation of any form of terrorism.
By recommending the research, development and ultimate use of vaccination to control and eradicate ISA, the rapporteur also provides comfort to the pharmaceutical industry who have hitherto had no incentive to invest in the development of a vaccine.
If they yield, they are lost.
Firstly, the promotion of and participation in the drafting of joint plans for the creation of an integrated services network in the transport and energy sectors, with the backing of the European Investment Bank.
I know we will be coming back to these issues again in the future to see how we can best make sure our policies are adapted and reformed to underpin economic and social progress in Europe.
After the planned accession of new Member States with their 100 million inhabitants, the prosperity level of which is at one third or two thirds of the average level of the current EU Member States, this squandering will generate even more protest.
That because racial hatred, xenophobic violence, fear and rejection of what is different, have deep roots in all that is basest in humanity, they may re-emerge at any moment and take over any group of human beings.
Within the employment strategy we will look for a deepening and broadening of the strategy following the review under the Portuguese presidency and within the framework being proposed by the Portuguese Presidency.
What could emergency and reconstruction aid consist of?
We therefore view it with interest and hope and commend its intentions.
We now know that at least one person in the world dies of hunger every four seconds.
As a farmer myself, I am most concerned that consumer health should not be put at risk.
That is the measure of the problem.
I too should like to ask the European Union to put its own house in order here, i.e. to call on Member States which still have gold mines to commission expert reports, so that we know just what the situation is.
Given this possibly negative effect on the internal market and the risks inherent in OTC instruments, the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 12, 15, 37, 38, 39, 43, 46 and 48 and parts of Amendments Nos 17, 36 and 45 which pertain to OTC instruments.
A key problem is the time factor.
Some of it ends up in the bottle and is drunk.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Thursday 3 February 2000.
The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
All legislation must be enforceable and be based on the general principle of political acceptance.
Mr President, it is our opinion that one facet of the construction of Europe hinges on the construction of a common judicial system, for the Europe that we want to build, which comprises administrative law, civil law, both substantive and procedural, and criminal law, both substantive and procedural.
We also know that many of them only earn EUR 30 a month, while their fellow European citizens can earn three times that.
Further liberalisation will occur afterwards.
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
(NL) That the Florenz report has caused such a stir has been proven by the powerful lobby machine which has been set in motion by both industry and the environmental movement.
As an islander, however, I would like to express my dissatisfaction at the lack of recognition of island development.
How is it envisaged that the EU' s institutions, which are already stretched well beyond their capacity, can bring the ambitious projects concerned to fruition?
On behalf of the PSE Group, I want to send a message of solidarity to those affected, to the fishermen, farmers and businesspeople who enable the products of the sea to be regularly brought to market.
For instance, the very rapidly growing educational and technological potential of the Internet offers entirely new means of helping the developing countries, which at present still have modest resources, to move towards a global approach, as opposed to globalisation.
This means that in terms of quantity management too, we need to put in considerable effort to ensure that life upstream and downstream is not affected by it.
Employment policy measures should also be eligible for funding under strand B, especially for the applicant countries as part of the pre-accession strategy.
I also want at this stage to say that I was able to propose this initiative to the Commission thanks to the cooperation and understanding of my colleague, Viviane Reding. This initiative was also established in conjunction with Günter Verheugen as it involves all the major challenges of enlargement, both its opportunities and risks, and of institutional reform.
Providing aid rapidly, when it is needed, saves human lives; in many cases providing it late is worse than not providing it at all.
. Mr President, I consider it a privilege that I am replacing my colleague, Commissioner Bolkestein, on the occasion of such a high-quality debate on postal services.
In order to be realistic, I further support postponing the date for the application of these conditions until three months after the directive itself comes into force.
But we also believe that, in many cases, the proposals put forward by the Commission and the Council represent too much of a step backwards, which is why we would like to see a vote balanced between the various requirements in the proposals presented to us.
I see no reason why European Union Member States cannot work to implement the key provisions of this directive in as short a time as possible.
What is the basis of armed action?
The postal service is also the doctor.
It will also continue to fight for Member States' acceptance of this.
In addition, the Commission' s proposal puts forward special risk-spreading rules for funds whose aim is to replicate a particular stock index, a so-called index fund.
My feeling is that, in spite of everything, this issue will always have to be on the agenda, because the public is clearly concerned about it, and because it is linked with the need to make the European institutions accountable to the public.
Finally, because we consider that both the stability pact and the stabilisation and association process the European Union is implementing in countries in that area, will create new problems there, new tribulations for their peoples, and will reinforce the dominant role of the American and European imperialists, we will be voting against the report in an expression of our solidarity with the people of FYROM.
This extreme difficulty in seeing the contradictions of the current situation and, where necessary, confronting these is seriously limiting the will, duly confirmed by Mr Prodi, to grant public demands.
In my opinion, there is too much initial hesitation.
The House will be aware, of course, that the Commission cannot fulfil these objectives alone.
The entry into force of the treaties and their final form is, however, in addition to this recommendation, dependent on implementation by the parties themselves.
However, I would highlight not only paragraph 9 of the motion, but also paragraph 10.
Although it may have been effective in certain areas - and I do not doubt the sincerity of Commissioner Barnier' s words - unfortunately it is still in its infancy when it comes to forestry.
Could the Commission say whether the Greek Government has made any specific commitments on how to tackle the problems of youth and long-term unemployment, and what these commitments are? Has the government legislated for and put into place a suitable system for pinpointing, recording and monitoring fluctuations in unemployment, or are most of the measures perhaps still limited to counting those out of work?
In voting against the Jonckheer report, I wish to assert the need for another policy, to wit, ceasing all aid to private firms and utilising the money thereby saved to develop public services and recruit staff.
Report (A5-0107/1999) by Mr Berend, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the Sixth Periodic Report on the Social and Economic Situation and Development of the Regions of the European Union (SEC(1999)0066 - C5-0120/1999 - 1999/2123(COS))
I would like to thank Mrs Grossetête and her colleagues for bringing this motion before Parliament.
They were stripped naked and dragged along the floor by their hair, surrounded by a horde of state security police.
With regard to policy, this minus number is multiplied by the number of results which are not achieved each time one measure cancels out the intended effect of another.
Yet the latter cannot exist without free and unrestricted social communication which itself cannot exist when journalists are persecuted, detained, threatened or put under pressure.
We promote participatory approaches, we ensure the consultation of civil society on the reforms and policies to be supported by the EU.
And, above all, it was a necessary war, and it was not only about what was possible, it was necessary to put an end to an absolutely unacceptable form of aggression which was utterly rejected by the entire international community.
For example, I have today received information directly from Rafael Marques, whose situation we are discussing, according to which two correspondents from Portuguese television have been imprisoned in Angola.
That is an undesirable situation, we do not want that situation in the future.
It is the European Parliament which is to carry out the political evaluation.
Mr President, the Intergovernmental Conference mandate needs to be widened.
I think, however, that instability is merely a symptom and that we should be looking at the underlying causes. I think that it is preferable to fight the causes rather than attempt to tackle the symptoms when this is probably not possible and when, as already stated, the measure concerned is pretty certainly at odds with the Treaty of Rome.
The CFP does not assist in conservation and is angering the British public to the point where we demand to re-establish control over our own territorial waters.
The question of renationalisation: first of all, although it is not really necessary, I would like to point out and stress, several times if I may, that the White Paper does not affect mergers or State aid in the slightest - we are not looking for devolution in these areas - but that, as far as Regulation 17 is concerned, there is a risk of renationalisation.
Should we at long last be drafting convergence criteria, in which - as you in fact hint at in this programme - the aim would be that unemployment in no Member State should be higher than, say, the three most successful countries in this matter?
I think that your proposal, Madam President, to keep the debate and the vote separate, with the debate on Friday and the vote at a later date, is a reasonable one.
Regional disparities are becoming much more marked within the Member States.
In particular, annexes cannot be adapted to take account of technical and industrial developments.
My question, which the President-in-Office did not answer, is this: if this inquisition procedure begins, in which the main or, if you will, one of the main people interrogated and probably found guilty will be Mr Solana, who is today the High Representative of the European Union' s Common Foreign and Security Policy, should it not be, if that happens, if the General Prosecutor of the Tribunal is determined to begin the process, that Mr Solana' s status is suspended at least until it is shown that his hands are clean?
Direct business to consumer contact will supplement, and sometimes also reduce, the currently, nearly exclusive business to business relationship.
This kind of tourism, which is undertaken mainly by large numbers of senior citizens, is just as important.
At a recent visit in Brussels these fishermen' s representatives, duly accredited, travelled from Northern Ireland and they were threatened with expulsion from the meeting when they sought to argue a case that they had very well prepared.
The concept of transparency stands out in the report.
If the Commission can indeed restore confidence in the food production chain it will simultaneously restore confidence in the European Union institutions themselves and demonstrate their ability to protect the rights of EU citizens.
They put their own petty squabbles first, and the rest is history.
The chief victims today are the shellfish farmers who were once the most successful producers in Europe.
The point is that underlying this whole process is an effective political will on the part of the European Union to draw closer to these countries.
We must recognise that Article 18 concerns what is clearly a controversial decision.
The debate is closed.
In its original form, it points the way towards a renewed economic policy which aims at something more than merely tightening up and balancing the economy.
That is why it is absolutely essential to deal with the fallen timber before the warmer weather arrives.
The sectors which have been liberalised are experiencing an avalanche of mergers and acquisitions, leading inevitably to monopoly situations.
It has especially active since then in bringing citizens' concerns about food safety issues to the fore.
This is unacceptable in my view.
A legislative act, a directive, in which there is a standardised definition for the different types of fraud such as money-laundering or corruptibility, and in which the obligation to launch criminal proceedings is enshrined as a binding objective, may enable us to take a major step forwards, and I will therefore advise the Commission to examine this step with all due haste.
The disease exists since 1984 and there is no report of it affecting human health or mammals.
Although we did not have a very positive exchange on Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf' s report earlier on and will certainly have to agree to disagree, things may be different with this report.
I think that creating and supporting statistics is a very important political issue and that the facility to set targets, compare performances and bolster our efforts is an important political tool.
The establishment of social quotas in favour of the very smallest categories would be no more ludicrous than establishing quotas of women.
Firstly, because it clearly stipulates the environmental objectives.
The government is obliged to show up any of its dilemmas, and to show where, when and why, problems occur with coherence of policy, rather than sweeping it all under the carpet.
Human rights is such an important issue within the ACP-EU Assembly that Joint Vice-Presidents have been appointed with special responsibilities for monitoring human rights closely and reporting to the Assembly.
All this, of course, does not mean that our Group does not share the concern of the Italian Members regarding the effects of the closure on the region concerned.
(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the European Union' s delay and indecision with regard to the introduction of a fully-fledged Community policy on tourism, increasing attention is being paid to tourism as a sector capable of generating new jobs.
Is the Commission making an excessive effort while others are failing to cooperate?
Its legislation is to apply equally to all, to large and small countries alike.
I believe that OTC instruments could lead to problems, because they are not liquid, the price is difficult to estimate and they entail uncovered counterparty risks.
The Commission' s proposal encompasses both the transportation and the placing on the market of sheep and goats and a Community regulation to fight scrapie.
Others, like Amendment No 4, which request financing for biological closures, also demonstrate a lack of understanding of fisheries regulations by requesting measures which are already in force, although admittedly there is room for improvement in these.
The economic and social cohesion which we propose is based, by means of the INTERREG initiative, on territorial cohesion and on the integration of border areas and the outermost regions of our continent.
Graefe zu Baringdorf (A5-0015/2000)
A coherent legal framework must be re-established.
Therefore, Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, I would ask that this issue, which is of vital importance to a very significant industry within the European Union, be taken into account in this strategy and these strategic objectives for the next five years.
Much of this has to do with real disagreement between sector interests in each and every Member State, as has been very honestly said here in this House: people more or less identify with their spheres of interest, and all this is legitimate.
Mr President, unlike some of the previous speakers, I want to go back to the words of our Portuguese ministers and Mr Vitorino.
Our concern is strengthened if the rumour reported a few days ago is true - namely that the Commission wants to limit severely the access of Parliament to information.
This is not merely a problem for Spain; it is one for the Nordic countries, and I sincerely hope that we can rely on national solutions in these matters, when they are better for the environment and the economy than what is proposed in the directive.
The economy has never grown so much nor favoured so many countries on a global level.
Mr President, one of the key aspects which have been mentioned is, to my mind, the rapporteur' s proposal for the standing committee on standards in public administration.
Measure after measure has come out of the Environment Committee.
The principle of unrestricted liability on the part of manufacturers is also dubious in terms of the principles governing the market economy.
In conclusion, while welcoming Commission approval for LEADER+, I am concerned about the time delay between the ending of LEADER II and the commencement of the new programme.
I strongly oppose using the WTO and trade rules as a pretext for preventing the EU from introducing radical environmental standards.
As for the budgetary provisions within the Member States, between central government and internal autonomous regions or countries, these are determined according to exclusively national considerations and are therefore not affected by additionality within the meaning defined in the rules.
We clearly have different views, one of which is that we believe the development of the European economy can be regarded with confidence.
The energy situation varies widely from region to region in the European Union. Assistance from the Structural Funds could be justified in certain cases and for certain regions, particularly in the case where the connection to basic energy networks is still underdeveloped.
It is therefore the Commission that must ensure that certain development projects comply with relevant environmental provisions.
After all, it makes no sense to copy the many sound recommendations made by the Committee of Wise Men word for word in your report.
We need to change tack completely.
I would just like to underline this - the situation is, of course, a little precarious - Parliament has, for the sake of convenience and safety, placed the EQUAL programme on the back burner for the time being, so that Parliament has yet to be persuaded of the way the funds are to be distributed.
(Loud applause)
I referred to the case of Italy, not only because the President is very familiar with it, but because Community statistics (Eurostat) themselves reveal that not only has Italy' s welfare expenditure - currently 25.9% - been below the Community average (28.2%) since 1990, but that it has also been well below that of countries considered to be doing well, such as Germany (29.9%) and France (30.8%).
What is the Council's view of the involvement of European governments and companies in this project?
Equality has no pillar of its own.
It has also reached a political agreement - and we congratulate them on this - on the initial proposals for civil cooperation.
This is where we want to go.
They would then determine their own prices.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please excuse my late arrival, but this other political issue is still on the agenda today, more is the pity.
It is very clear that this solution will involve one of the most important aspects of relations in this area at present, which is the extremely positive trend in relations between Athens and Ankara and the very important part played in these relations by the Greek Foreign Minister, Giorgios Papandreou, and the Turkish Foreign Minister, Ismail Cem.
As far as the possibility of having projects containing training initiatives is concerned, I might point out that this is precisely a point which we have now integrated into the new rural development policy, which means, in our view, that it is no longer necessary to do this as part of LEADER.
We do not want to make the conditions of competition worse for some countries unilaterally and improve them for countries such as Austria or other transit countries.
As you can understand, it would be easy to do so.
Do you envisage circumstances under which the BSE status will depend on the willingness to apply a BSE test?
Mr President, Commissioners, first of all, I cannot help but reflect upon the fact that this is, on the whole, a Dutch-British-Scandinavian debate where the speakers are concerned.
I would just like to clarify that we will only be talking about the other items on this agenda today, and not about the Geneva Convention.
The correct speculative approach, it seems to me, is to remove the real causes which lead to financial chaos, rather than attempting to suppress its symptoms by introducing obstacles to the operation of the markets.
I am a great fan of voluntary quotas on electoral lists, without which, in fact, I would not be here today.
The quality of an aid package is assessed according to the following criteria: is it decentralised, is it transparent, is it accessible to the citizens and does it work?
The Commission should now produce an ambitious and far-reaching reform programme.
The decision-making process concerning this framework directive on water has reached a crucial stage.
Let us make ourselves heard!
Mr President, the name of the republic is still a problem on account of the Greek sensitivities surrounding it.
Proposal for a joint resolution on human rights
European citizens have the right to buy goods for their own use, including taxes, in any Member Sate and to take them to another Member Sate without having to subject these goods to controls and without possibly having to pay another set of taxes on them.
International government organisations and non-governmental organisations must be allowed access, and the Union' s general Council decided on 6 December 1999 to send representatives from the Member States to Ingushetia to study the humanitarian situation there. I am, to say the least, curious to know how they are getting on.
Nonetheless, their true purpose is to give direction and to set priorities.
Perhaps this is also why, as is rumoured to be the case, the Council has become bogged down in its negotiations on this as well.
Therefore, we believe that this framework directive should advocate a use of water which allows us to overcome territorial imbalances and, to this end, I ask that you support Amendment No 95, which has been presented by our group.
We need controls and suitable structures which reflect the culture, mentality and specific problems of each area.
And more than this - and this is more prosaic, Madam President, it means that we have the ability to learn from previous policy initiatives by putting them into action in new programmes that are comprehensive, that are cross-cutting and that benefit our creative industries to the extent that they now require.
What are we to do now?
I was told that this was a personal response.
Madam President, I should like to know if there will be a clear message going out from Parliament this week about our discontent over today's decision refusing to renew the arms embargo on Indonesia, considering that the vast majority in this Parliament have endorsed the arms embargo in Indonesia in the past?
We now have a number of guidelines for using the precautionary principle, and we have increased support among our respective peoples for using it, something which is clearly established in the present communication.
I certainly intend to do that with organisations and groups in my constituency in the West Midlands.
You say there will be no further funding.
We must be very aware of the situation of those people whose prospects of finding work are threatened or reduced by economic changes, mergers, take-overs, new technologies etc.
..., with all the rights and commitments that this entails!
We have made a start, and we hope the work will produce some excellent results.
On the other hand, we have to see to it that none of the achievements or aims of integration that have been stated thus far are watered down.
But when we need to consider if a region can move from a negative epidemiological status to a better category, an epidemiological inspection of the situation in a region in the form of suitable sampling in abattoirs using such tests can provide useful pointers in the political and scientific debate as to where there is a need for preventive consumer protection and, basically, where such tests can be used to help us settle disputes on a proper basis.
Mr President, I am also pleased to welcome the Spanish Commissioner, Mr Solbes Mira, whom I have congratulated more than once, inside and outside this Parliament, on the excellent work he did in Spain on the subject of European convergence.
However, this one would undoubtedly be one of the firm favourites to win such a prize.
However, I am sure that I do not need to remind you of the importance of a branch of the economy which is both an economic and a social factor, which affects not only Germany but all the coastal regions of Europe.
In fact, in my own constituency of Stockholm, we have many good local examples of increased supply and improved quality which have arisen precisely because of exposure to competition in areas which were previously total monopolies.
In fact, we were shaken by it.
In conjunction with these changes, Amendment No 5 deletes a reference to accounting headings accordingly.
Madam President, I would simply like to point out that during the procedure, we were not allowed either to table or, consequently, adopt amendments in the Committee.
Scientists will be employed in-house but it will also be necessary to liaise with scientists on a consultative basis and, in those circumstances, as scientists will have to travel, it is probably better that they move to a central location, once again where the parliamentary structures and the Commission and Council are based.
Some of our working practices need radical reform.
This will be the only way for the Cambodians to pardon those who simply followed them and to achieve lasting peace.
Mr President, I would like to thank not only Mr Koch, but also the Vice-President of the Commission for the clear and unambiguous way in which they have declared their support for safety in the transport sector and acknowledged it as a priority.
I am referring to the sanctions against Yugoslavia.
At the same time, however, it means that both the Council and the Commission have a very strong mandate, so that the strength of opinion expressed by all the European parties, and all the peoples, can empower their political ability to address the problem.
Sometimes we may feel that too much has happened.
We agree with Mrs Stenzel that the request to postpone the vote is admissible in the interests of achieving the greatest possible agreement between the groups, so that Parliament can express its position on this initiative with the broadest majority possible.
I believe now is the right time for us to think back once again to a proposal put forward in this Chamber by a former fellow MEP of ours, Tom Spencer. He suggested that rather than giving storms the names of men or women, we should name them after the perpetrators of the greenhouse effect - he proposed the oil companies at the time.
Europe is its people, its history and now its collectivity; but the reason why Culture 2000 is so important to us is for this: I will wager that when we ask the question - 'What is Europe?' - we answer it by saying, 'It is our art, it is our literature and it is our heritage.'
This is important in the interests of transparency and the overall effectiveness of networks.
Parliament cannot change these details.
Finally, will this whole decision-making process be carried out in a transparent, public way?
This partial renationalisation of competition policy could involve higher costs for Member States.
The Commission is sending out the wrong signals here, by renaming the Directorate-General for Financial Control as the Directorate-General for Audits, for example.
Two million people died of AIDS in Africa last year, approximately 200 000 died in wars.
This is a silent revolution and in this respect I expected more from your communication.
Such measures must also aim to promote rational use of natural and cultural assets and of the tourism infrastructure, so contributing to the balanced and sustainable development of tourism.
There are only a few helicopters available to save tens of thousands of victims. The water levels continue to rise.
On the second part of Mr Harbour' s question, he will see in the course of this year how with greater precision we will be showing how the application more extensively of information technology will facilitate change, not only in terms of the working practices and conditions of the staff but in the operation of the Commission, as the President briefly outlined in his statement.
Secondly, what will happen to the European defence industry which, after all, comes under the more general activities relating to this system?
In a number of amendments, the proposed standards and especially the OSPAR standard for 2020 are called into question.
On behalf of my Group, I once again condemn these terrorist acts.
It is also 'confusing' .
The key goal of the structural funds is to strengthen social and economic cohesion between the regions within the European Union.
To identify the EC's priority areas of support, account has to be taken of the Community's specific features in relation to the Member States and to international institutions.
Madam President, my Group is extremely delighted that this debate is taking place today, particularly as we have spared no effort along with Members of other groups to bring this about.
The Commission' s role is to make sure that the standards required by the Birds Directive are fully met, and clearly there would be a problem with compensatory measures which were themselves damaging.
In this case, Mr Prodi, we certainly have a kind of "Ten Commandments" : a whole raft of issues are listed, but if I may say so, we are left with the impression that the Commission is afraid to make any decision regarding what needs to be done about any of these points.
I hope that the Commissioner will accept the proposal which we are making.
Nevertheless, we definitely have to do more.
This was an important consideration for us.
We have just heard Mr McCartin on the subject.
By means of this extraordinary procedure, Parliament is stopping itself from placing liability for the arrangements in 1997 squarely where it belongs, namely with the previous Commission.
The Rules of Procedure do not shed any more light on the matter and that is exactly why this back burner is extremely useful.
Secondly, as there is no mention of Structural Funds in the current draft could you ensure that this would be put back in?
The rapporteur places the emphasis on the testing and labelling of GMOs in feed additives.
Of course, we need double-hulled vessels.
Unfortunately, the positions taken by the Commission and the Council, or at least the presidency, are more than just a hair' s breadth apart; this is serious, especially in the light of the Council' s macho position on Austria.
As the report itself indicates, the funds allocated to the URBAN II programme for the 2000-2006 period are approximately 30% less than those in the previous period, which were already low, at EUR 900 million. Added to this is the fact that only about fifty projects are considered for the whole of Europe which is pathetic when practically all European city districts, both suburban and inner city, are affected.
It is these questions which cause concern among our fellow citizens.
Finally, this House must tackle the phenomenon of immigration with sufficient calm to avoid increasing tension in a debate which must go much further than the appropriate words and condemnations prompted by such behaviour.
On this historic occasion we welcome these developments in our relations and the prospects for closer ties between our two parliaments.
It may be a matter for discussion here and elsewhere and I will listen to any suggestions that are made but my preliminary conclusion is that this Authority should be located centrally rather than on the periphery.
This framework directive is intended to paint the broad brushstrokes of the policy for the next decades and there has been much panic over the details.
As the House knows and has repeatedly said, the scale and scope of the Union's financial interventions have grown immensely in the past decade without a proportionate increase in staffing or an adjustment in procedures.
The competition report 1998 is not a bad foundation for this but, in fact, there is nothing that could not be further improved upon.
Their expertise, is, of course, superior to that of the Commission.
We must meet these challenges together.
Events such as the BSE and dioxin crisis have stimulated a growing public debate about the circumstances in which precautionary action is justified and necessary.
We do not believe that common European legislation in these areas is a solution to the problems involved in designing systems of social security.
That concludes Questions to the Council.
You mentioned 'women' in your speech, but they are not referred to in the context of the strategic goals.
The Commission will propose that the Member States become involved in this exercise either as part of ad hoc cooperation or a more structured partnership.
We must confront increasing public awareness of GMOs by regulating their use in feedingstuffs accordingly.
The most important issue with regard to this is internal differentiation within the Union.
What is a fair society?
It is absolutely right that we pay serious attention to the violations of human rights that are to be the subject of talks in Geneva.
A more balanced and more rigorous diagnosis would be welcome in my view.
As a Member of the European Parliament for the constituency of Leinster, I have always supported the need for the implementation of bottom-up schemes supported by national EU funds.
This is related to developments in the sphere of displaced people and the possibility of a new arrangement regarding displaced people should a different solution be found for the island.
The form the aid takes is important.
It is also of great importance to citizens.
It is high time that institutions restricted their scope to actual cross-border issues and stopped decking out the European cart with powers which they are taking away from national authorities.
The directive must not be allowed to endanger this work.
Little consideration, if any at all, has been given to the great problems facing the island regions of the Union whose shortcomings as regards infrastrucutres structure, transport, communication and energy has resulted in their gradual depopulation.
The financial controller is no longer to make advance checks, if all goes to plan as regards the reforms currently under discussion within the Commission.
That is one of the issues that we address in the annex to the legislation, and the intention is to establish a positive list for feed material.
The Union cannot be enlarged to 28 without addressing the matter of whether Europe has certain joint principles and values, whether it comes down to an economic free trade area, or whether, on the other hand, it has a greater ambition: the desire to be a supranational union, in ways that have yet to be defined, that wants to blaze a trail for civilisation and democracy in the world.
Alternatively, it could accept the offer of an agreement amongst the institutions, in order to move forward in another way.
Exceptional financial aid to Kosovo
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ever since the beginning of 1999, discussions have taken place between the institutions on the subject of the proposed regulation for a third stage for the instrument for the environment known as LIFE.
We cannot leave it simply to governments.
I am not surprised the Commission is having trouble producing a basic document for discussion on sustainable and social development.
We can be proud of monopolies and mergers supervision.
And that brings me to the fourth aspect of this new development model that I would like to emphasise. Particularly in recent years, development policies have been regarded as an increasingly global matter, and yet there is apparently a lack of strong international leadership.
He referred to United Kingdom border controls and I would like to say to him that Member States, and this includes the United Kingdom, are under no obligation at all to abolish or change controls at the existing borders.
We are very concerned about the direction we are taking here without proper public debate within the national parliaments or elsewhere and without the involvement of civil liberties organisations throughout Europe which are extremely concerned about these developments.
You reject it flatly because you do not understand the first thing about it.
I am far keener to see us move away from today's car, weighing 1,400 kg and driving an average of 200,000 km, to a future car capable of driving the same distance but weighing just 1,000 kg.
Human rights do not exist in isolation, they are connected to our development policies, our economic policies, our home affairs policies, indeed they are at the very heart of our democratic functions.
Madam President, my group was one of those which wanted to have a document allowing an exchange of views on the Commission' s strategic objectives within the group before this debate, instead of being reduced to an on-the-spot reaction in plenary.
Reading now what happened then, not even a year ago, it becomes clear that that first report was intended to do anything but serve the cause of truth or reform, as is maintained today, so much so that this second report - which, on the other hand, could have provided much more salient points - was commissioned with the precise mandate not to address specific cases, since there is no intention to follow up the offences detailed in this report.
It is now the intention to send the last 4 000 Dineh Indians to this land.
Neither is correct.

This downturn in aid is chiefly due to the reduction in aid granted to the new German Länder.
We look forward to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and to seeing its contents.
Mr President, that situation cannot continue and needs remedying.
The current example of the Danube and the pollution from Rumania shows very clearly that if we fail to establish a new method of economic development, clear requirements, controls and precise measures concerning the state of our rivers, this type of incident will not only occur again but will do so increasingly over time.
Briefly, just to follow on from that last point, I invite the Commission to make it absolutely clear that the Commission's objections, such as they are, would not in any way infringe the rights of Danish nationals to benefit from this scheme, but simply that the Commission has a concern, which it has the right to have under Community law, to ensure that the scheme applies to all EU citizens who qualify.
This time, I am referring to the workers of the company Goodyear in Cisterna di Latina.
Vocational training and a mobile workforce are important tools in the strategy to fight unemployment in Europe especially, as far as tourist service providers are concerned, in meeting multicultural demands and ensuring that services are tailored to customers.
Anyone, whether European or not, who lives and works in Andalusia, is an Andalusian and deserves our consideration and respect. The EU can and must speak out.
We believe that, in the political design of the Union, other issues need to be dealt with.
I have in mind, in particular, the important impetus given to this debate by the World Bank, especially through its Comprehensive Framework document, and by the International Monetary Fund, where, for the first time, an institution of this kind has put the problem of reducing poverty at the centre of its policy guidelines and has forged a hitherto unimaginable link, for a body of this type, between debt relief and poverty.
If so, then we will have a trial run for half an hour and see how it looks when the President sits with his back to the light!
It is very easy for us to demand that others assess its impact but, on environmental questions, we should demand it of ourselves and consider how many people, how many farmers, could be ruined by having to pay the costs.
This question ought to have been asked when the new Commission was appointed.
I welcome the renewed warmth in relations between the Greek Government and the Turkish Government.
The smell is absolutely disgusting!
I do not know your exact view in this respect, Mr Kinnock, but it is clear that we want Commissioners who are politically strong and politically committed.
I think that it would also fit in well with the plans which have been presented over the past couple of days on good government in Europe, as company policy forms part of this.
. I would like to begin by congratulating the honourable Member on the way in which he introduced this extremely important debate.
In that respect, Ireland falls short, like other Member States, but we hope that the pressure we are exerting will produce results.
We will try to move these strategies forward as much as possible during our presidency.
In addition, it is also essential for the European Union to undertake to reform the IMO, as a matter of urgency.
My Group has signed a joint resolution with EPP and UEN, in which, however, we made it clear right from the outset that we are against the naming of company names.
Question No 31 by (H-0795/99):
As far the Commission and the Legal Affairs Committee are concerned, it comes under competition.
This is unfortunate and it is wrong, and we believe that it is important to identify it and to establish legislation to close that gap and that will be done.
I would still like to highlight this point though: this directive does not constitute any kind of legal basis for diverting water from a Member State' s territory against its will.
I have mentioned the example of social services before: nowadays we can reduce everything to attracting the customer, including the pensioner in an old people' s home, and the question is whether we want to subject all that to competition, whether that is the right course.
If we do not, we will be permanently endangering the ecological wealth of our continent.
It is not just a question of style.
However, these isolated elements which make sense and for which we voted, in no way remedy the Eurofederalist philosophy which characterises the Community initiatives, particularly INTERREG.
I would like to inform you that there is a delegation from Kuwait, led by His Excellency, Sheikh Salem Al-Sabah, Vice-Prime Minister and Defence Minister, here in the official gallery.
Some proposed amendments which we support should strengthen the European Parliament' s negotiating position in the forthcoming conciliation with the Council of Ministers.
And, of course, these policies need a budget, they need to be given financial teeth.
Who will take the decision, who are the decision-makers?
ALTENER
As this voting matter is vital to the democratic future of this Union, surely it should receive priority consideration.
This necessary realistic and pragmatic policy, however, which will have to be associated with the elimination of the practical obstacles identified as unquestionable factors in this inequality must, as far as we are concerned, necessarily be based on the idea of complementarity, which is the only one capable of justifying a proactive policy on the subject.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my answer by reminding you of the position adopted by the Commission with regard to the formation of the new Austrian Government. This was reiterated this morning in President Romano Prodi' s speech on that government which includes Ministers from Jörg Haider' s Freedom Party.
All of this must be done - I repeat - with the participation of private business, which, by uniting its efforts with those of public administrations, but complementing them, never obstructing or excluding them, will lead to the creation of wealth in society and of jobs.
On the one hand, we receive all kinds of words of praise for the rapporteur but, at the same time, Mrs Morgan wants to pursue a sort of scorched earth policy on this point and on other key points as well, as a result of which, in fact, the entire content of this report vanishes.
In fact, 45% of the Danish government is made up of women, and that is, in reality, a touch more than in Finland.
This has never been the case. We are simply trying to ensure, in a Europe with 30 or 27 Member States, the best conditions for the operation of the internal market without one country being able to block the other 26 or 27.
The other amendments are unacceptable.
Several countries phased out antibiotics in animal feedingstuffs a long time ago and others are in the process of successfully doing the same.
Procacci report (A5-0025/2000)
We succeeded there in agreeing, at an international forum, as to the definition of the precautionary principle.
Following Nassau, a delegation from Parliament led by Mr Corrie and the Chairman of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, Joaquín Miranda, visited Havana and a series of very illuminating exchanges of opinion took place.
The process of reform has been going on for some time, and something like a state of emergency seems to prevail in the Commission.
A5-0038/2000 by Mrs Attwooll, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the proposal for a Council regulation establishing a Community framework for the collection and management of the fisheries data needed to conduct the common fisheries policy (COM(1999) 541 - C5-0302/1999 - 1999/0218(CNS));
Since Tampere, there has been an imbalance between positive action and mere declarations of intent.
To remedy this, vigorous efforts are required.
There need to be tough rules stating, among other things, what may be decentralised, what may be outsourced and what is independent.
On behalf of the European Liberal Democrats, we can support the Commission' s proposal on Mr Böge' s report, but in the forthcoming debate on Mrs Roth-Behrendt' s report we must look again at the position of those countries where TSEs do not occur.
Madam President, off the subject of aeroplane delays, I wish to apologise for the absence yesterday of my colleague in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, Caroline Lucas, who is a British Member.
And it will therefore be necessary to guarantee genuine freedom of movement to all citizens residing in the territory of the European Union, recognising that this is only meaningful if it is rooted in a secure base, with solid foundations in an effective judicial system to which everyone can have easy access, on equal terms, and in which our citizens can have real confidence.
Thousands upon thousands of human lives are in danger at the moment, and only international solidarity can save them.
Reference was also made to the question of whether this proposal could give rise to the risk of the establishment of monopolies.
Mr President, Commissioner, before I explain to you the position of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, I would like to share with you three basic factors which, in my opinion, determine the present and future of European tourism in an international environment.
We need to do something about it.
The initiators of this question do not propose a solution; instead they are calling for a new burden, they are calling for more bureaucracy, for a measure which runs counter to the market mechanisms and they are taking up plenary' s time with an intergroup opinion which excludes the competent parliamentary committee, contrary to several resolutions by Parliament.
I would urge the Council and the Commission to move in this direction.
The Committee on the Environment' s present proposal to reduce discharges to close-to-zero is, in my view, to be welcomed and worthy of emulation.
Mr President, how much longer can we continue our cooperation with Angola?
. (DA) We have voted in favour of the report on the communication from the Commission concerning the guidelines for EU initiative programmes (CIP).
Let us impose training for male and female candidates in politics - but why especially compel women to undergo training?
Both Treaties contribute towards a high level of protection for works and other matters, but offer the public access to the contents of these via electronic networks.
I believe that this is a serious issue which we are obliged to follow up, but it should not be dealt with by means of urgent procedure.
This project, with its social harmonisation, does not constitute social policy. Instead, it is an extension to the EU' s EMU project, which is of quite special interest to the three countries which remain outside EMU and can rescue themselves from the sinking ship, namely Great Britain, Sweden and Denmark.
Saying that the client will receive a better service at a lower cost is patently inaccurate.
Mr President, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group considers that the agenda for the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, as set by the Helsinki Council, i.e. focussing strictly on the issue of decision making in an enlarged Europe, must be adhered to.
Workers are facing a massive attack on their employment and social rights.
All this would be established by two regulations, one for the Public Prosecutor and another for the criminal code. The regulations would be adopted pursuant to Article 280 of the Treaty, i.e. based on secondary law, whose characteristic feature is that it makes any sort of secondary shift of emphasis possible.
It must be remembered that, currently, the European Union' s overall competitiveness is, in general terms, 81% of that of the United States of America and that this figure will only improve if the figure for our competitive units, that is the regions, also improves. Furthermore, this is at a time when technological development, economic globalisation and our problems, which are enlargement and the single currency, demand that the regions, as well as businesses and individuals, make more of an effort to be competitive.
I am pleased that I can address him now in Dutch, now that Mr Van den Berg has just done so. Otherwise I probably would have felt slightly guilty about this.
This is the topic.
The White Paper also contains very important proposals in respect of controls.
It must be known.
Commissioner, we must be consistent.
I asked Commissioner Monti the other day what happens if he proves to be wrong and there is an effective renationalisation.
So liberalisation has taken a lot of parasites off our back in many areas and enabled many people to enjoy higher standards of living.
One is to adopt the Commission' s own excellent, outstanding econometric analysis, and ask the Council to transform it into a programme of action involving certain interconnected quantifiable targets of levels of investment growth and employment that would make our commitment to a policy of full employment operational and credible.
If this solidarity is to have been worthwhile, it is up to Europe to propose priority actions for safeguarding the timber industry.
I often have the impression, unlike the country I come from - former East Germany - where economic competitiveness is prized above all else and competitiveness relating to managerial economics is disregarded, that very often the reverse is the case; society thinks almost exclusively in terms of managerial economics.
Parliament supports this.
In our view, the axes which could create a basis for its support are: the addition of material capital for tourism in the new review which will also constitute a legal base for the sector, the framing of a Community tourism policy to support the sector without disturbing the operation of the tourism market, coordination of the tourism policy with other, parallel Community policies which affect it directly or indirectly, a study of the sector, and the adoption of medium and long-term measures to enhance the competitiveness of tourism as a product.
Mr Solana, you yourself are a perfect illustration of this, as it were, structural complicity, passing smoothly from NATO to the CFSP as if they were one and the same. Of course, in reality, they are the same thing.
I cannot imagine the Commission taking initiatives in order to de-Europeanise or re-nationalise in a thorough manner, but I have my concerns and questions nevertheless.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in letters dated 3 August 1999 and 3 December 1999, the Council called on the European Parliament, pursuant to Article 39 of the Treaty, to deliver its opinion on a draft convention between the Member States aimed at guaranteeing improved mutual assistance in criminal matters.
These are matters which we ourselves shall no longer be able to decide upon as voters and no longer be able to change on election day.
I repeat, Commissioner Nielson will be happy to report to Parliament when he returns from Mozambique and the scene of the disaster.
However, we have voted against paragraphs 2 and 6, because they seem to us to be legally incorrect.
However, we obtained a well-balanced common position in July during the Finnish Presidency.
Should any of these risks materialise in a negative fashion, what will be our response - more laissez faire or shall we have prepared ourselves better than in the last downturn?
Just as it also must not fail to include everyday issues which, for that very reason, are highly visible to the European public.
This would mean that the process of replacing dangerous substances would be implemented more slowly.
The framework programme on culture is replacing the present Kaleidoscope, Ariane and Raphael programmes.
Is there any argument for our being given a special privilege just because we are parliamentarians?
Spain and Franco were not one and the same.
This is not the first time this has happened: Europe was once confronted with a similar transformation, an explosion of its markets, a change in its points of reference and a different view of the world.
However, this does not exclude the possibility that areas in Kosovo are contaminated by depleted uranium.
In our view, cooperation is, and should remain, an intergovernmental exercise.
The debate is closed.
There have only been nine rejections.
We need, in short, to have and to sustain the highest possible common standards and to find ways of securing these.
So carelessness within the Commission in the spending of money is not likely to put at risk vast quantities of money.
Rightly, the concentration today has been on the military side but we have not forgotten about the non-military side either and Mozambique reminds us of the importance of remembering that.
We therefore demand that once the Treaty expires, steel aid must be regulated by a Council regulation according to Article 94, for that is the only way to create the necessary legal validity and clarity.
Finally, once this legal basis to which many of us aspire has been established so that a common tourism policy can be developed, we must be realistic and prepare a strategy on tourism and its relationship with employment, as proposed by the Commission with the support of this House. In this strategy, young people and women, training and quality and the new information society must receive preferential attention.
We hope that the events in El Ejido will serve as a lesson to everyone and will not be repeated.
I have noticed how the principle of a necessary culture at European organisational level has been firmly asserted, but there are few opportunities to address all the requests that the European States will make.
This is why what seemed to be a local and isolated phenomenon in El Ejido is actually a worrying symptom which is coinciding with the emergence of parties like Haider' s.
With 20 000 tonnes of crude oil left in the holds of the sunken vessel, the situation could still deteriorate.
So long as we continue to have unanimity, so long as yesterday the Dutch Government was able to impose those EUR 167 million as an ultimatum and so long as a government with Mr Haider will soon be telling us what cultural activities we can pursue, we will never progress.
Finally, and in particular, expectations in the regions about this initiative are high given that small towns not eligible for Objective 2 funding are hoping to obtain compensation through INTERREG!
The case of Flora Brovina is just one of many.
Following on from this, it is probably also more meaningful, with regard to the financial aid to regions, to give Member States more say anyway.
Firstly, there is no evidence that the tax on international capital movements could reduce the dangers of volatility and instability in the international markets.
I would like to finish off by commenting on the remarks made by a few Members this morning and, Mr President, with your permission, I will do this in English.
I particularly welcome his recognition of this virtuous circle of having sustained growth: the information society in an expanding European market with the addition of a fully functioning single currency which will give us the opportunity to genuinely promote prosperity, innovation enterprise, the entrepreneurial spirit and yes - most importantly of all - extra-high value sustainable jobs for our European citizens.
Based as it is on the principle of partnership and equality, and on parliamentary control by the Joint Assembly, it is an example to the world.
In Tampere, the question of granting operational powers was discussed.
This means that funds must be used to achieve maximum effect and information on successful partnerships must be widely and rapidly disseminated.
The meeting held in that North American city demonstrated that globalisation is having seriously unbalanced and negative effects on poorer countries.
I appeal to everyone here to evaluate the products which will be used by UCITS.
Let me remind you that when the guidelines were adopted by the Commission, in the form of a draft in February 1999, in line with a new procedure intended to make it easier to present comments on this text, my predecessor, Mrs Wulf-Mathies, presented them to Parliament immediately.
It need only be fine-tuned.
It is important that the timetable is an ambitious one.
The outcome is in our hands to the extent that we are providing you with decisions, to the extent that we are providing you with options.
Secondly, in terms of the definition of priorities for the next five years, we consider that the main question to be considered by the Commission is its role in interinstitutional relations within the EU which neither the programme nor the motion mention.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those who work on rural areas know that, of the programmes which the European Union has managed, the LEADER programme, both LEADER I and LEADER II, is one of its success stories, and I hope that the same will be true of LEADER+.
Here in this House, in Spain and in many other countries, we have all fixed on El Ejido. Yet what we do and say here and the concern we express will really serve no purpose unless this leads to the adoption of a much more determined attitude to finding out what is really happening, not only in El Ejido, but in many other places where this type of problem may be occurring at any given moment.
On the other hand, more pro-active attempts, such as OLAF, which is currently operating, have not allayed legitimate concerns about the system of guarantees for individual rights.
We attach crucial importance to applying, if necessary, the new provisions under Article 7 of the Amsterdam Treaty so that a country which, by its actions, infringes fundamental citizens' rights by means of discrimination and such like will have its voting rights in the EU' s Council of Ministers removed.
The present programme' s key measures - water quality, tomorrow' s city and innovative products and processes - to a certain degree cover the same questions.
It is only natural that we in Parliament guard the interests of our citizens, but it is also in the interest of our citizens to live in a stable, international environment, in which the goal of human safety is pursued.
In addition, the need for greater transparency has been pointed out.
However, there is also nothing more certain than EU environmental directives which have laudable intentions but which actually fail to achieve their stated objectives.
In any case, this idea must be encouraged, and it will doubtless be during this attempt to protect financial interests that we realise that we need to include a Community corpus iuris in the Treaties.
Madam President, as you know, the reason we are voting this report today rather than last week is because of the numerous and serious translation errors, particularly in the French version.
However, I would be more than pleased to elucidate a few points as requested.
The Council?
In the meantime, we constantly need to start from the premise in our policy that it is desirable for Macedonian legislation to resemble that of the Member States, and our policy should reflect this, even in the naming of aid programmes for Macedonia.
It is easy for individual countries, for individual sectors of industry, to escape the effects which have been painted to us in recent days.
There are parts of Europe with an inherent shortage of water, and that should be taken into account by this directive.
I do not usually bother congratulating people but I think she has produced a very cogent report and deserves our thanks.
I have read - and heard in the debate - that coherence is being used as some kind of a miracle formula that takes care of everything.
With regard to the IGC and this issue of the fight against fraud, and specifically fraud against the Community budget and interests, we have retained the idea in our proposals of creating a new and specific post of a European public prosecutor. We have done this in the spirit of this House' s work and perhaps by going down the same road.
How can we ensure that we will not be laying ourselves open to attack at any time, for example by our partners in the USA, on account of the bio safety protocol not being adequate to their purposes?
What does the European Union intend to do with Macedonia?
Question No 1 by (H-0022/00):
At present there is a difference in treatment between authorisations, depending on whether applications were submitted before or after 1 January 1988.
Having said that, governing means planning. It also means being responsible and, in this new context which has been forced upon us, competition law naturally has an essential role to play.
Mr President, I would like to begin with some words of optimism, which came to us in the form of the High-Level Group communication of October 1998, the first page of which said that by the end of the next decade, it would be possible to create between 2 200 000 e 3 300 000 new jobs in tourism activities in the Union.
During the procedure, agreement was reached on the studies and actions to devise, implement, complement and assess the Community measures.
I also hope that, if there is any life in outer space, as has been speculated by Mr Newton Dunn, it was tuned in to Mr Havel' s speech as well.
Our real concern is undoubtedly to initiate further liberalisation of the market, and, above all, to achieve consistency between the different national markets. As things stand, there are considerable differences between them which come to the fore if we compare the English, Italian and French markets.
Any interference by the European institutions in this country is therefore unacceptable; it is in violation of the European Treaty (Article 7 of the Treaty of Amsterdam).
All these complex problems undermine the quality of life for our urban residents, yet we have the potential in these areas to create growth and prosperity.
There is no doubt that Mr Böge and the rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment are now tremendous experts in this field.
In order to ensure that the Treaty is upheld and that we sustain what was described as the Community machine, we are following the course of action which was set down in our statement yesterday.
A5-0073/1999 by Mr Langen, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the Commission Report on the implementation in 1998 of Commission Decision No. 2496/96/ECSC of 18 December 1996 establishing Community rules for State aid to the steel industry (Steel Aid Code). [COM(1999) 94 - C5-0104/1999 - 1999/2107(COS)].
The second is to allow the Commission itself to finance pilot studies and projects.
But of course, as others have said, this whole thing was predicted and predictable and the slow and very inadequate, woefully slow and woefully inadequate response is something that should dictate now that we actually do invest seriously in disaster preparedness.
I would like to challenge Portugal to deliver proof to the contrary, by making commercial interests subservient to human rights, to which so much lip service is being paid.
That is why policy for rural areas is more than a policy just for farmers.
I have in mind budgetary and financing aspects, indebtedness, assistance in sensitive areas such as food safety, humanitarian, educational and health-related issues, and also fields such as the environment, investment and access to information and new technologies. This also applies to the sphere of trade, where we need to ensure real coherence between development policies and other Community policies, and also between both types of policy and corresponding policies originating in the Member States.
There is the fact that we have to take the interests of the economy and also of the individual into account.
It is incumbent on the European Union and the United Nations to address what is a social and fatal problem in a comprehensive and strategic manner.
The tax would be targeted at the right place: at the speculators.
It is a pledge to European citizens, who have voiced their concern, as regards European food policy, on many occasions.
Each day, each hour of delay costs many lives.
At present, under Article 99 of the Treaty of Rome, decisions taken at EU level concerning tax changes must be by unanimity.
First, the Committee on Development and Cooperation advocates the communitisation of the EDF; clearly that is misguided.
The Lomé Convention has been an expression of a real partnership between the EU and the ACP countries for over 25 years.
It seems quite natural that given such a disaster, national and European solidarity should go to the help of the devastated regions and those people who have been worst affected.
In addition to that, the food safety authority will have a board.
We will also be looking at this from the perspective of social and employment policy, and will be applying a number of tests.
By renovating those structures and systems, in some cases very radically, we will assist the people of the Commission who are strongly committed to the European ideal and have high quality of capability to release talents and manifest themselves as never before.
We therefore support the proposal to reduce the time allotted for implementing different parts of the directive.
This is the price of the future of generations to come.
I would like your advice about Rule 143 concerning inadmissibility.
For example, as they stand, the Commission' s programmes will preclude us from meeting our obligations under Kyoto.
We shall pay particular attention to the wording of the Minutes, as we always do, of course.
Perhaps you will do so before Parliament debates the TSE report.
It is the result, first and foremost, of the ghettoisation and exploitation of immigrant labour.
However, before the elections we - the Council, the Commission, Parliament, the press, unions and companies that is - worked towards making the Europe we have today more comprehensible to the citizens.
This is money which is helping to impede the development of the agricultural sector in the developing countries, which accounts for 69% of the total work force there compared with 1.7% in the EU.
I am glad that at least after five years of insistence they have found the target of full employment acceptable but I must say that simply referring to full employment without proposing a concrete programme towards achieving the targets smacks too much of lip service and is too unconvincing to serve as the political message of optimism that people expect from us, have been expecting from us rather too long.
The agreement concluded with the ACP countries paves the way for new initiatives, in particular on the rights of third country citizens within the EU, and measures facilitating their integration.
That is absolutely absurd.
In relation to the makeup of the authority: first of all it will employ in-house scientists who will liaise with and consult with scientists who are experts in the particular field that is being considered at any particular time.
Is there a reference to cutting down paperwork and bureaucracy for applicants to European funding whilst ensuring financial control?
It is evident that the scope for achieving coherence between policies will always be limited and it is only natural for there to be some contradictions between policies as these are means of balancing and weighting the contradictory and conflicting interests within the European Union. Only in this way is it possible to manage some degree of contradiction between policies.
For the 2000-2006 period provision has been made, unfortunately, only for a total contribution of EUR 2 020 million, and an indicative allocation for each Member State has been set.
For us in Finland, a sparsely populated country, a visit to the post office is a social event.
I must make it clear to you that we need this financial regulation, the one that has yet to be decided on here, before we can even get started.
Therefore, and given that the relationship between the European Union and the Commission and Turkey has now changed, it would be a good idea if Turkey discussed certain matters relating both to the safety of the area in general and the peaceful development of Turkey within the European Union.
Thank you very much.
Amendments Nos 6 and 21 are new; the Commission can approve these.
The Netherlands is significantly affected by the European water policy.
We must thank those who, while defenceless and lacking in resources, have battled courageously against the grave effects that this disaster has had on coastal regions, the marine ecosystem and European fishing stocks.
Before I begin I will take the liberty of expressing my consternation at the way in which Austria has been prejudged by 14 Council representatives.
Note that this proposed tax, which seems to be producing strong emotions in some people, would be the lowest tax in the world and the lowest in the history of global taxation. Yet it would represent the recapture of the areas seized from democracy by the financial sphere.
You yourself, Mr President, spoke of a model of which, unfortunately, there is little mention in the document. You said that we must offer our citizens a model of economic, social, cultural and ecological development, both internally and towards the outside world, which differs from other models, including the US model.
In other words, accession should not be held hostage to a political solution.
A big responsibility rests with the United Nations because they are addressed with this report, so they have to take responsibility.
The silt was in fact shifted 3 kilometres, at a cost of FF 6 million, the cure being worse than the disease, and a consequence that was foreseeable and actually predicted by the parties involved with the site.
Secondly, the Baltic States are also knocking on our door.
When it comes down to it, Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty are not enough.
We condemn all violence over there and that is what we need to do, but we cannot talk about genocide in reverse.
It is also very hard to adopt policy in this respect because the discrepancies are so huge.
We also deplore the excessively lax application of vessel inspection, and we are in favour of creating a European coast guard authority, and also, in particular, of introducing more binding regulations and making double hulls mandatory.
The local councils and regions where the money ends up have since gained practical experience.
We have heard a lot about difficulties of competition in renewable energies but energy efficiency saves money for business, saves money all round in fact and therefore it should be non-problematical.
If it is then a question of listing the areas investigated or researching these, they can be found with the rapporteurs, among them the author of the report on this convention.
Fertile soil for the growth of democracy in this war-ravaged part of Europe is best provided through trade and economic integration.
I think it is also interesting to add state aid and Community aid, which may be assimilated in some way into state aid.
Now, the Union and the Member States are combining to take the first steps in the area of intellectual property law.
Parliament has proposed EUR 850 million, but the document repeats the initial proposal of EUR 613 million.
I share that concern and I believe that this issue should be addressed.
Does this permit legislation also to be passed concerning national laws on transparency and not only in connection with the three institutions of the European Union referred to there?
We Swedish Christian Democrats also oppose any threats which have been made to delay the enlargement of the EU to the east if the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference is not extended very considerably to include subjects in addition to those left over from the Intergovernmental Conference in Amsterdam in 1997.
We negotiated with the Commission for two years on the seed directive and came to a compromise regulating the release of genetically-modified organisms in the directive, taking the text on which Directive 70/524 is based as a starting point.
Secondly, because it can promote recycling, which is important.
Madam President, it is remarkable that the European Parliament has not yet adopted a position on the possible release of Mr Pinochet, despite the fact that international arrest warrants have already been issued.
It should be our goal to ensure that port state controls are not superficial, but include materials testing.
All I can do now is to promise to strive for it.
And if we were to speak of serious and persistent breaches, then perhaps we could mention some Member States, such as Italy and France, first and third, respectively, in the list of countries condemned by the Council of Europe and the Strasbourg court.
Mr President, once again we are debating the European Union' s competition policy.
There was also deep satisfaction on both sides when this was over, not just because it was over, but because we all knew that we had achieved something together, the EU and the 71 ACP countries.
(The formal sitting was closed at 12.40 p.m.)
We should be careful about this.
Mr President, I am reassured by the fact that the first three speakers in this debate are intimate with this situation given our African origin.
Directive 70/524 still contains the old text because the seed directive was submitted to Parliament in 1986 and we then negotiated with the Commission until 1988, while the report on this directive was dealt with in 1994 and Parliament obviously did not accord genetically-modified organisms the same importance then as it did later when I was rapporteur.
We also welcome the recognition of the need for evaluation and the dissemination of best practice for the tightening up of the transnational level.
Thank you very much, Commissioner Nielson.
In consequence, I seek some small adjustments to the guidelines to provide a little more flexibility and to accommodate the ways in which the interests of maritime areas can fall between strand A and strand B. These adjustments include clarifying the possibilities for cooperation between maritime areas and permitting greater development of practical and visible projects, particularly those of an infrastructural kind.
After all, innovation in areas that have already grown prosperous is paying dividends even now and taking place without European funding.
We shall now hear Mr Wurtz speaking against this request.
If you want to better inform the people, you should start by strengthening liaison with this House, as we are the representatives of the citizens.
You dare not even call a spade a spade, but instead hide behind pseudo-trendy language by using the term 'governance' for what is nothing more than federal, autocratic, centralised government.
Questions will be asked - questions which I shall have to put to you and the Commission representatives in committee - on how things stand with the BSE status of the Member States and other third countries.
Prevention has to be our answer to disasters of this kind and this draft directive is an important step towards well-trained safety advisers being available, so that the right action is taken in good time.
Mr Prodi, there is one positive thing that I would like to say to you, perhaps contrary to the opinion of some Members, regarding the telegram that you sent to the Austrian Government.
This is why it is useful for the European Union to continue to support the Member States and, if necessary, give additional support under URBAN.
The fate of Andrey Babitsky, the correspondent in Grozny of Radio Liberty, who was arrested by Russian troops, is a dramatic example of Russian policy.
That is why I welcome Mrs Palacio' s action plan with open arms.
The debates on UCITS gave rise to speeches on behalf of all sorts of lobbies and heated debate in the relevant committee.
It is therefore wrong for people to talk about a European army.
This is the best support we can give to European democracy.
We are all aware that an all-out federal approach and a situation where a European judicial authority takes precedence over the national judicial authorities is a step too far for some people.
Are we talking about the distribution and sourcing of water?
I am also grateful, at the risk of being repetitive, to Mrs Theato for the consistent attention that she has given to these matters and indeed the way in which, if she will allow me to say so, she played midwife to many of the changes which we are now contemplating.
My own view is that the options for allowing derogations had already been given proper attention in Amendment No 43, tabled by the committee and been even more clearly set out in the Greens' Amendment No 105.
That is most certainly relevant.
I am in favour of preventive measures, starting with feeding which is suitable for the species, rather than measures to combat an epidemic once it has broken out.
At this stage, this could include, for example, collaboration between the Commission and the Political Committee, the consolidation of Community responsibility for non-military crisis management, the creation of a Council of Ministers for Defence, coordination of the Treaty on European Union, the NATO Charter and the WEU, the legal personality of the European Union, reinforced cooperation in this area as well, parliamentary control and, lastly, financing.
I would like to tell you that, in fact, it is not just an environmental problem - it is a very important environmental problem - but it is also a very important social problem.
The challenge is to make the system the very best.
The supplementary aspects that arise from the interinstitutional agreement with the Commission are welcome, but that could not change the basic decision of the Council.
It has nothing to do with any disputes on the substance; it is just about the following question: when will the Commission - having already had a year and a half to do this - finally be in a position to table the directive?
On the one hand, it continued to refuse to accept the term "European cultural policy" or other similar terms, even undervaluing the terms of the Treaty, and it defines "Culture 2000" simply as an instrument for cultural cooperation and no more.
Let us contemplate this result, derive satisfaction from it and grant ourselves a licence to fully embrace this worthwhile strategy.
These parts of Amendments Nos 49 and 87 can, therefore, be approved.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are addressing a very important sector that directly involves over 10 million jobs in the European Union and helps the more or less disadvantaged, island and remote areas to stand on their own feet.
You said earlier in your speech that a disaster such as that of the Danube is an example of the need for an emergency structure; no, Mr Prodi, we need, at long last, to start transposing legislation and ensuring that legislation is monitored.
It is the meeting of Europe with itself, with its raison d' être, with the reasons why we are here in this Chamber.
However, at first reading this House insisted that the current directive should not only be compatible with the commitments made, like OSPAR, but should allow us to reverse the course of affairs.
It seems to me that in order for the European Union to demonstrate that it has a role in helping the citizens of the European Union it must give assistance to Member States to demonstrate that the Union works for these citizens and their families.
In the age of globalisation, which we do want to facilitate with a framework of specific rules that will provide guarantees to the economic operators and consumers, the European Commission cannot forget solidarity, and must call for its implementation through the use of all of man' s spiritual resources in his relations with his fellow man.
Several Members have set out what seems to have happened.
The common fisheries policy is theoretically very demanding and very strict in this respect, perhaps more so than most people, both Europeans and non-Europeans, would believe.
It is true, the civil war in Cambodia is over and political tension has eased.
The framework decision aims to ensure that the Member States apply the same definition of counterfeiting offences.
I also commend to you the amendment standing in my name and colleagues from Germany, Italy, Ireland, Spain, Sweden and Britain, to remove the retrospective nature of this measure.
We need the Member States to act quickly and decisively.
One is the balance which has so far been maintained between large and small countries.
B5-0149/2000 by Mr Galeote Quecedo and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on outbreaks of racism and xenophobia in the El Ejido area in Spain;
But the Prodi Commission now wants to transform the EU so that it can apply for joint global governance with the United States, which it also sees as its future competitor and rival.
So far, social policy has remained limited in terms of set-up and resources.
May I say how the Commission welcomes the European Parliament' s support for the two proposals on the freedom to provide services and on third-country employees, the topic of the debate.
I usually see Commissioner Diamantopoulou desperately tearing her hair out, bit by bit, because the elderly live too long, leading to problems with pension payments.
VOTE
. Mr President, the draft Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union is approaching adoption by the Council.
A free and open market can only exist by the grace of competition, marked by clear, uniform rules.
That is the only way in which we can help to restore the legitimacy of the project of an enlarged European Union in the eyes of every European citizen, an enlarged Europe based on respect for rights and freedoms, with a guarantee of personal safety and safety of property and with effective legal protection, in other words, a Union rooted in the political values which underpin contemporary democracies.
Mr President, there is a new doctrine taking shape in international law, according to which no country can treat its citizens or the people living within its territory in any way it likes, and the sovereignty of the state can no longer prevent outside intervention when there are gross violations of human rights, not even when the government is legally or even democratically elected.
I share the regrets she expressed, namely that Parliament has become involved rather late in the day as regards these guidelines, since by now the procedure for negotiations with the states is so far advanced that I cannot see this report having any sort of immediate effect, which in my view is a pity.
Let me point out, in passing, that the Commission President, Mr Prodi, is also a Council member, and he has every intention of making use of this position and this role, alongside the Heads of State and Government, particularly during the final period.
The action which the Commission can take relates to the specific guidelines.
Is the Commissioner aware that our country has one of the oldest systems of transfers in Europe?
.
Well, we are coming to an end of the zoning phase.
It refers to the special Commission working group dealing with questions of equality.
I believe the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has restricted too tightly the debate on the transfer of water.
I have, in fact, always thought that insisting on a settlement of the present situation, in which one-third of this republic' s territory is occupied by Turkey, before starting negotiations with Cyprus was quite unfair.
Next, I would like to thank the emergency services and the armed forces of the Union' s Member States who, in a fine example of intergovernmental cooperation, came to support the efforts of their French colleagues.
However, I would like to address Commissioner Barnier and support the argument of Commissioner Wulf-Mathies and the Director-General, because I think they were absolutely right.
This means that almost ten million tons of waste are created by these cars, and approximately seven per cent of the latter are abandoned out in the open.
The European Parliament is certainly not to blame for this.
The European Union made a specific démarche on press freedom to the Angolan Ministry of Justice in November last year.
I am more than happy to include Bulgaria and Romania in this, as it seems to me a tactical and psychological error only to talk about the five countries of former Yugoslavia, plus Albania.
.
Having spent a lot of time at sea myself I am well aware of the sea's power and destructive force, which make a proper design and maintenance of ships and boats essential.
I want to see civil society given a louder voice.
We have serious reservations about the Council' s proposed amendments.
I will therefore monitor this in the implementation of the new Community support framework.
I say that with some deference in the European Parliament where there are so many experts in words, but we will try to lead by example.
We can do this by, as a Parliament, amending the Council' s common position and showing the way forward in working for a cleaner environment.
The Atlantic West Coast once again is paying a high price for their inability to react, for their capitulation to the multinationals.
Mr President, my Group is delighted about the fact that an agreement will be reached to regulate the day-to-day practice of mutual assistance in legal affairs.
EQUAL remains important to us because it is precisely in relatively more prosperous regions that lower-skilled jobs are being shed, which can be an important first destination for those discriminated against in the labour market.
We strongly agree on the need to decentralise our assistance programmes to the maximum possible extent.
It may also be envisaged that some economic and social rights could be guaranteed only for citizens of the European Union and third-country nationals meeting certain conditions.
We should take a look - thinking also of benchmarking - at what the consumer currently pays for an employee in the existing postal services and what he pays for an employee in the private sector.
They even reject the strict minimum, i.e. the Monti package proposed by the Commission in Brussels.
I believe that is a good thing
As far as Cyprus is concerned, although the Council stated that a political settlement would facilitate the accession of Cyprus to the European Union. It also stated that its decision on accession would be made without the above being a precondition, which I welcome.
For this reason, together with my colleague, Patricia McKenna, we have tabled amendments against the proposals made by the Commission.
The period of implementation can even be extended up to 34 years.
If we examine the data presented in the sixth periodic report, we will see that the last decade has witnessed a proliferation of regional disparities.
The capital markets are still at the mercy of their excesses.
Vehicles already abandoned have also been abandoned by Community legislation, in that they are not taken into consideration either in the texts on emissions or in this text on end-of-life vehicles.
In the field of judicial cooperation, the Commission presented proposals for regulations aimed at the "communitisation" of certain conventions. These were the convention on judicial cooperation and the enforcement of judgements in civil and commercial matters (Brussels I), the convention on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgements in matrimonial matters (Brussels II), and a third convention concerning the service of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters.
If the conclusion is that Turkey is planning to build a nuclear power plant that does not meet normal European safety standards is concerned then we would do the same as we did with Lithuania, Slovakia and Bulgaria.
I will give my support to the Commission and I hope that Lisbon will take us a step forward in this matter.
It would be a serious mistake to eliminate all public aid.
We share the same basic views but the Rapkay report lays emphasis on several points that we shall need to consider very carefully.
We will be bringing forward to the Council before Lisbon our proposals on a rapid reaction facility so that we can provide assistance where it is required, not in months or years, but in days or weeks.
The rapporteur has also quite rightly stated that Parliament was not heard in time regarding the guidelines.
Madam President, allow me to remind you that tomorrow will be the second anniversary of the Cermis tragedy.
May I ask: Quousque tandem - Noiz arte?
As a lack of coherence, one can cite as Mrs Sandbæk did, the exporting of milk products to Jamaica at prices far below production costs there which has almost ruined the Jamaican dairy industry.
There are also shocking examples in terms of sanctions and embargoes.
The appointment of an EU special envoy for Tibet would be primarily a matter for the Council to decide and Parliament might care to take the issue up directly with them.
We are giving new life to this idea with this report and call upon the Commission to present legislative proposals that will enable this goal to be realised.
The rate of employment in Europe, which is much lower than in the United States and Japan, must be increased.
That is certainly important but it is also a question of combating the misinformation that is put around by a very active anti-European movement and anti-European organisations that exist.
That government has proposed a way in which the Turkish Cypriot side can take part, and I think it would be right for the Council and the Commission to urge the Turkish Cypriot side to take part institutionally in the framework of the negotiations conducted by the Republic of Cyprus.
This is an approach, Mr President, which the European Union can develop with regard to the International Maritime Organisation.
That was a stick used to beat the Commission by the duty-free lobbies who resented the fact that the Commission abolished duty-free in airports.
What is the result?
We are also of the opinion that a further reduction in the burden and reducing the national debt should be prioritised.
The Commission report is essentially a descriptive report detailing the development of state aid in the manufacturing sector and certain other sectors, according to various typologies, such as the method of financing and the objectives pursued.
How many meetings of the group have been held to date?
Secondly, there is compulsory cooperation.
That has been helped by our excellent European Union representative in the country.
The countries who have made less progress in this field should attain the same level as the countries within the European Union that guarantee better social protection.
With regard to the Tobin tax as a means of preventing future currency crises, it has to be realised that the causes of a currency being overvalued cannot be averted through taxation.
The financial controller should still be able to make checks before funding commitments or payments are made, not in every case, but wherever uncertainties or risks arise.
The intention of this proposal is to introduce a tool for combating the disease in emergency situations.
In my opinion, the most important amendments concern the following:
The marginalisation of many economies, increased poverty in the world, the need for better management of environmental interdependence, the destabilising effects of migration and the worrying consequences of armed conflicts and pandemic diseases are all major concerns.
At the moment, our group still feels sympathy for, and patience with, the Commission because it cannot be held responsible for a large proportion of the mistakes made in the past, but this patience has a limit.
Thus, Amendment No 6, while maintaining the freedom of Member States to transmit the data to international organisations, requires that it also be sent annually to the Commission.
I am stressing this point because, when disasters are being reported daily in the news, we cannot just keep on saying for the umpteenth time that Europe did not act when it should have done. Then, in our haste, we act as if we will solve the problems which we refused to tackle properly at the appropriate time.
We are in the process of building a house but too few of our citizens really feel at home in our house.
But you never lost hope and history proved you right.
There is a danger of Amendments Nos 31 and 41 reducing the chances of recycling plastic, tyres and glass.
The Relocation Act was pushed through in Congress by a group representing the coal mining industry.
Guidelines of the Directive: a) each city shall provide the means, in terms of energy and technology, sufficient for this objective to be achieved by 2012; b) the full costs shall be passed on to the inhabitants of each city by means of electricity prices.
Social security systems differ from one EU country to another.
The broad principles are surely ones we should be able to accept - the broad principles that we wish to reduce hazardous waste leaking into the groundwater, the broad principles that we should be aiming to ensure that chemicals, which we all need in society in all circumstances, should not be finding their way into our water system.
Firstly, and as the Commission itself states, it must be understood that the great improvement seen by some of the poorest regions in their per capita GDP between 1991 and 1996 was largely due to the inclusion of the new German Länder in calculating the Community average from 1991 onwards.
Furthermore, we will see if we can do this for a range of other proposals that we have on this issue.
This does not apply to all farming in developing countries but to the poverty-focusing which we need to deliver better than so far.
The main thrust of our work in both Assemblies was poverty eradication.
Listen to the resounding voice of Solzhenitsyn in his letter to the Americans, in which he says that the main cause of the weakness of Western society is excessive pandering to legal individualism, an individualism which, far from allowing people to flourish, paves the way for future dictatorship, in fact the worst kind of dictatorship, because those whom it enslaves are not even aware of their terrible servitude.
What I can promise with regard to this issue is that the presidency has the utmost commitment to working, for as long as it is involved with this matter, in an atmosphere of total transparency and openness towards Members of the European Parliament. We will also make the utmost effort with members of the Council, particularly with those who had most difficulty in accepting the proposal suggested last year, so as to reach a reasonable compromise solution, and one which would at the same time guarantee the dignity appropriate for a statute for the members of this House.
Is it not about time that we stopped expressing sympathy and started issuing enforcement notices to get rid of these ships of shame in favour of safe seas or we will be back again, later on this year, discussing a new motion for a resolution when yet another flag-of-convenience tanker sadly goes down spewing its crude oil all over the sea.
We are about to advance into new territory where attitudes and symbols are of great significance.
Question No 12 by (H-0801/99):
Madam President, Mr Prodi, we are pleased about the overall intention of the objectives announced which are in line with the challenges which Europe must overcome.
It is clear that in this event the objectives will never be achieved.
The common position stipulates 2006.
The major problem is not that no measures are being taken against crimes committed against the Union but, rather, that these are committed so often and far too seldom discovered.
In the past, the representatives of the ACP countries tended to be government members, government officials or ambassadors; but today at least three quarters of the ACP delegates are elected members of parliament.
But there is still enormous inefficiency and a lack of will to implement a strategy agreed with other members of the international community to overcome the anti-personnel landmine problem within a finite time span.
For me personally at least, difficulties were caused by the directive' s technical division into two different proposals, which certainly did not make it easier to familiarise oneself with this very difficult technical subject.
That is why I should now like to see a Commission that takes the necessary initiatives and sees to it that there is effective competition in the postal sector.
The antibiotics, growth promoters and genetically-modified organisms mixed in with feedingstuffs end up in the human food chain.
I now come to the EQUAL initiative, which is, of course, based on Article 13.
We have already had three resolutions on the death penalty approved in Geneva.
Mr President, what is happening in Mitrovica in Kosovo is appalling and reprehensible.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
Dropping the obligation to notify will mean less red tape and administration costs, at any rate.
I would ask the Council and the Commission to look into these serious allegations carefully and inform the European Parliament of the outcome.
So what we are looking for is cooperation between local groups, between local authorities and between countries in order to exchange experiences; that is mainly what we are looking for, and for experience to be transferred from one country to another so that it can be emulated.
Protection under criminal law of the Union's financial interests
However, we also expect there to be greater awareness and appreciation of the peculiarities, differences, varying situations and traditions of the fishing industries, and that they will not be disregarded, penalised or even eliminated due to the misinterpretation of the concept of harmonisation of fisheries policies, as has sometimes occurred in the past.
Others believe that it is not so bad after all, if there is a slight pause after the first step of liberalisation.
Now I believe, Commissioner, this is not good enough and that in the future we must learn and that reports must be submitted to the Parliament' s Fisheries Committee before decisions are taken, otherwise then we are nothing further than a rubber stamp and I know that is not the intention of the Commission or the Commissioner but let us learn from mistakes of the past.
First of all, the port-state control, according to which 25% of all ships require inspection.
We all agree that, after a decade of very weak growth and intolerable unemployment, certain action must be taken.
It conflicts with established economic and legal principles retroactively to impose upon a manufacturer financial liability for its product.
Our aim is to focus the Commission on essential policy priorities and on core activities in line with our strategic policy objectives for the next five years.
We therefore wonder whether the Commission has the political will to resolve them.
I belong to the great majority of Members of Parliament who voted in favour of continuing the INTERREG Community Initiative Programme. I regret that Parliament was not informed about the appraisal of the previous programme, which would have enabled the new measures implemented to reach optimum efficiency, but I acknowledge that this was not an easy operation.
We are trying to arrange that there will be four categories for which funding is available.
Mr President, we need to get used to the idea in the 21st century that we have to show water a completely new respect.
The Commission pointed out in committee that it plans to present a novel feed directive in the future.
Mr President, I want to thank you for your answer. I want to ask a follow-up question which bears some resemblance to the one Mr Sjöstedt asked.
(Applause)
We should stop financing this regime and we should certainly stop supplying arms for the war.
Mr President, I listened with interest to the Commissioner's reply about the need to apply the laws of the single market.
Pursuant to Article 3(8) of the Directive, terms and conditions of employment must be in keeping with the 'collective agreements which have been concluded by the most representative employers' and labour organisations at national level and which are applied throughout national territory'.
On the other hand, we can be fairly confident for the future because we know the efforts that car manufacturers are prepared to make in order to find (a) materials that are easier to recycle and (b) to set up recycling industries.
Mr Goebbels, I am sorry, but I think you are jumping the gun; Amendment No 37 is an oral amendment proposing that the words 'with a high rating base on a recognised rating scale' be moved. You were asking for the place to be changed.
We are better off with one democratically controlled monopoly than the waste and chaos brought on by competition which cannot be controlled.
Perhaps this is a very unromantic thing to say on such a morning.
I thus believe that Mr Schulz could have spared himself the effort of making certain remarks.
A disaster of this scale could almost certainly not have occurred along the American coastline, and why?
As you can see we have many exhibitions around Parliament, whether they be about different countries or whatever.
We must also ensure that Amendment No 45 by Mr García-Margallo y Marfil is amended if it is to be adopted, because the same problem will arise.
Terrorism, whatever form it takes, is unacceptable.
Question No 36 by (H-0782/99):
In conclusion, this morning, the day after St Valentine's Day, the newspapers are saying that your honeymoon period is over.
ECHO is currently focusing on the provision of medical supplies and emergency health care, on support to institutions as well as vaccination.
The work of this URBAN agenda was then taken out to the wider community with an active communication and publicity campaign in local supermarkets and famous British pubs.
It has taken two years for the Council and the Commission to produce this proposal.
Madam President, Mr Bolkestein, the ignorance surrounding this debate is unbelievable.
During the previous question, we were discussing electoral issues.
I have also been arrested for protesting at Faslane.
The Community construction only makes sense if it creates positive discriminations alone, and the UEN Group hopes that this signal to FYROM and specific action in its wake will help us make a sustainable contribution to the development and peaceful coexistence of the nation states in this fully-paid up part of Europe.
The European Union and its Member States should take the lead in providing a significant portion of these funds.
We look forward to a fruitful dialogue with you on this.
So the honourable Member's remarks about the strategic importance of these regions are extremely well made.
As you will know, the aim of these objectives is to cut poverty by 50% by 2015, by increasing compulsory schooling, by significantly reducing child mortality rates, and by implementing a raft of social welfare measures with a view to effectively achieving this objective.
In yesterday' s debate in the European Parliament some Members of this Parliament expressed worry that we were interfering in the internal affairs of a Member State.
We have the feeling, and are in fact convinced, that the Member States would be more than happy to withdraw the things they wrote in 1992 in the Treaty of Maastricht.
Mr President, esteemed gentlemen from Portugal, especially the Council representatives, you face great expectations on our part.
On the one hand, any of us could pick up on a whole cluster of inflammatory remarks by the leader of the Freedom Party.
This is why we urge the Commission, in this sharp and clear resolution, to develop specific instruments.
The joint debate is closed.
It sounds good, saying that access to water should be a human right and ought to be free of charge.
In them we say that the forthcoming IGC must look into a decision-making system that pays greater attention to national sovereignty.
Is the Commission ready to suspend funding completely, pending a review of the development plans of the area?
What point is there in issuing restrictive directives if, once they are at sea, most vessels do just what they wish?
From a desk assessment coupled with a fact-finding mission the report concludes that the risks, if any, are limited to an area around the target.
If only a legislative decree were all it took to change centuries of history.
Yet I must say that I disagree with many of his proposals because I am with those who believe that it is not just resources which are important in the fisheries sector but also the human beings who have been carrying out this activity for centuries.
In these areas, Europe' s democracies have a chance to show the world that cooperation leads to peace and increased prosperity.
Like a number of previous speakers, I, too, wish to consider the economic problem and the problem of finding funding for projects, which, in my view, should be incorporated into the pubic domain.
That means that the legal basis we are now seeking to establish to protect the euro does not derive from Community legislation, as it should, but merely takes the form of provisions supplementing an international convention dating back 71 years.
We share the view, forcefully expressed by the Committee of Independent Experts, and repeated in this draft resolution that the time has come for a thorough overhaul of our rules and procedures.
People are especially wary of GMOs.
It must clearly be accepted that the people should be free to make their decisions at the level which best combines the objective conditions of an immediate, fair and transparent democratic debate, namely at national level in the main.
Clearly, we must consider the problem which exists here and now and the challenge presented by the existing range of cars.
Of course we recognise the role of the Security Council, as the Helsinki resolutions clearly state, in maintaining international peace and security.
I can, therefore, only be delighted at the adoption of these directives thus amended. We could not really tolerate much longer a situation in which people legally resident within the European Union had to face so many problems.
In human resources policy, the involvement of Parliament will unavoidably have to be as an employer of civil servants as well as a democratic institution to which the Commission is accountable.
I think it is more important to bring into focus what we want to achieve before we give up responsibilities, because I can imagine we could meet with a great deal of protest otherwise.
It is good that, in establishing the present regulations, we can also be flexible.
We will also have to await the outcome of the work of the Intergovernmental Conference as regards enlargement, to see to what extent the internal dynamics of the European Union are directed towards increasing the coherence of its policies, and, as regards development in particular, to what extent it also contributes to appropriate institutional arrangements for achieving this objective.
Secondly, the new "in" word is flexibility.
There are alarming reports of human rights violations.
We must insist today as a matter of urgency on the right to education and the duty to remember, to recall the dates in history when our countries teetered on the brink of horror.
Europe is not, nor can it become a classic federal state.
Employment in the tourism sector is often highly seasonal and precarious, thereby hampering its sustainable development.
Now the European Parliament is supposed to state its position on this complex, difficult and, at times, contradictory Council document in the space of three months.
This unequivocal position on the part of the European Parliament gave rise to a certain degree of controversy.
It is essential that these groups are able to obtain the limited resources they require to be effective.
Madam President, I would like to refer briefly to the last objective, which seems to us to be absolutely fundamental: the stabilisation of the continent and the strengthening of the Europe' s role in the world.
On the contrary, for a long time even the European Parliament was not informed.
Otherwise, we would be in a way undermining the whole process of drawing up the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Some of the amendments in your report pose this question.
Mr President, I should like to thank our rapporteur for this excellent report which, nonetheless, concludes that, as a Community, our accession to these two WIPO treaties must not boil down to a mere institutional development, however important that may be, i.e. the opportunity for the European Community and the WIPO Assembly to work together.
In a symbolic but significant gesture Commissioners have voluntarily renounced their entitlement to the tax-free purchase of alcohol, tobacco, petrol and consumer goods.
It lives up to the expectations the citizens have of us.
This may be proclaimed in the course of this year, with or without Israel' s support.
Since the Council recognises the fact that culture is a major economic asset, it should, in my view, demonstrate this in practice.
Only then would we have been able to conduct proper and searching discussions.
. Mr President, I am full of praise at the sterling efforts of MEPs --some of my Labour colleagues among them - on the ACP-EU Joint Assembly and their efforts towards securing a new Lomé Agreement, which will benefit some of the poorest countries in the world.
Mr President, Commissioner, at this point in the debate I am going to insist on certain aspects which, from an agronomic point of view, and since I come from a southern country, I consider to be absolutely essential to this directive.
Each Member State ought to have full responsibility for, and the right autonomously to decide upon, its social security systems.
It would be to send out the wrong signals both to European industry and to the European people.
The question has to be asked whether some of the activities suggested in the resolution might not put more pressure on its resources than is desirable.
Even the accumulation of money from the cohesion funds and the structural funds has failed to have the desired effect in all regions and countries.
Madam President, this debate was opened by Mr Da Costa, who merely confirms that the EU presidency is trying to influence the composition of a government of one of the Member States.
The Commission proposed removing it and other initiatives, but Parliament' s proposal and the sensitivity of the Commission itself at the time led to the URBAN initiative being retained.
Again, I must say that we are concerned here with an extremely unfortunate confusion of the old Commission' s accountability for 1997 and the new Commission' s accountability for the future.
This proposal is similar to the proposal submitted for other candidate countries and, once it is implemented, will replace the financial protocols which have now expired.
We both come from Sweden. In our country, we pay our tax in the form of local taxes because the services concerned are local.
As I have said, we are not opposed to such a study.
But, despite the unfavourable opinion of ten European postal services, a form of unacknowledged privatisation is brewing in the corridors of the Commission.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lienemann has just painted a very drastic picture of how important water and air are to us, especially as the very source of life for human beings.
But these are always the words that those who conduct preventative wars use to justify their actions.
You will agree, furthermore, that the texts adopted by this House always call for Community jurisdiction, and that includes for the Charter of Fundamental Rights which is currently being drawn up.
Because of the situation in Austria, this is a dark day for Europe.
Those found in breach of them must be dealt with severely.
The evidence is that the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia is politically and economically capable of establishing new contractual relations with the European Union, going beyond the cooperation agreement in force since 1 June 1998, which in practice targets respect for the acquis communautaire, especially in key areas of the internal market.
I nevertheless believe that politicians should look into what can be gleaned from an expert report and what cannot be taken en masse in a spirit which, on some occasions, I have felt in the past and still feel to be self-destructive.
The package will grant around Euro 15 million in total for the two countries in the current year.
We should be in no doubt that conflicts may arise in the future too, but we can now show that we do not use the precautionary principle arbitrarily.
Mr President, in terms of human rights, there is of course a great deal amiss in Chechnya.
Postal services may then keep whatever does not whet the appetite of the private operators.
Secondly, we wish to see an exact progress report on the invitations to tender and the schedule for their implementation.
Nevertheless, I recommend that we start, in the hope that the Commissioner will be able to follow the debate, and particularly the rapporteur' s speech, from her office, if that is where she still is.
During the Christmas break, when the Dutch media received attention for the Erika disaster, I had a look, just out of interest, on the Internet to see what arrangements were, in fact, already in place for the purpose of taking relevant measures, especially after Premier Jospin had said that Europe should do more.
Sadly that is the case and we must face facts.
This report is a wake-up call to Europe.
Unless we address these issues, unless we dismantle these negative stereotypes, unless we take what is best from our various cultures and languages and protect and expand it and ensure that we are serious about having a diverse Europe, we will fail.
In particular, the communication calls for control of fisheries pressure to benefit commercial stocks and marine aqua systems, improved measures for nature conservation in the marine environment, in the graded management of coastal areas, improved training, information transparency and a greater contribution from scientific research to fisheries management.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)President.
Between these three programmes there must be a clear demonstration of the commitment of the EU to promoting cross-border development, combating the problems of long-term unemployment and supporting rural development schemes.
This report is essentially a primitive text with no inspiration other than the law of the jungle, for it is not competition that can solve the problems facing humanity at this turn of the century.
I have the feeling that that country is gradually being relegated to oblivion.
Those of us involved in these historic events are well aware that none of the upheaval would have been caused had we not acted with parliamentary power to press for changes in the way in which the Commission operated.
It has already taken a big step forward with Agenda 2000.
We consider it to be of utmost importance that, in terms of financial control, personnel management and bureaucratic short-cuts, we can expect swift lines of policy and a more effective bureaucracy, for the benefit of the citizen.
There is in particular one amendment, let me point out, concerning the energy sector, which, in my capacity as rapporteur, I see as particularly important.
You cannot legislate for consumer confidence. It is something that is earned over a period of time.
I am deliberately stating this at the beginning of my intervention to make it clear that there is in fact an alternative view to that of the committee responsible, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy would advise you to release the EUR 35 million, and this piece of advice is given because this money can truly benefit those in need.
It is in this spirit that our parliamentary committee for example, has championed the longstanding idea of a public register of state aid, accessible via the Internet.
This is a very environmentally reasonable approach.
Mr President, Commissioner, this sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union constitutes a milestone in the analysis of regional data and highlights the progress made in this area since the issue of the fifth periodic report.
Madam President, since these matters are currently being considered by the Quaestors, may I ask you to use your influence both to ensure that the Register of Interests is brought up to date and modified to cover instances of this kind and, above all, to ensure that the Register is not only available for inspection by this House, but is also published on the Internet?
Many of us here in this House have spent years, whether we intended to or not, dealing solely with the consequences of the BSE scandal right down to the last detail.
This Parliament therefore advocates the principle that we need to participate in the Commission on Human Rights and other international fora which deal with these issues and, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this Parliament would like to be able to participate in this type of meeting as soon as possible.
With liberalisation, how will it be possible for the universal postal service to be funded and to operate correctly in a country such as my own, Greece, with its particular geographical features and its numerous, small but inhabited islands?
I am personally convinced that information and communication technologies will be a key competitiveness and innovation factor for European tourism.
What are we doing about it?
So I welcome it as such.
The White Paper and the report are contributions made at the beginning of a necessary process of reflection, discussion, and reform which has yet to be concluded because there are still a few questions posed by ourselves, the judiciary, the Member States, and above all the SMEs concerned, that need to be clarified.
They find it is extremely difficult to spend the money on their most needy causes.
'No freedom for the enemies of freedom' was what the advocates of the revolutionary Terror were saying two centuries ago, the advocates of the revolution which proved, alas, to be the mother of all modern totalitarian regimes.
Very rapid growth is continuing in Central Europe.
This body has four standing committees comprised of national experts dealing with research and statistics, finances and administration, compliance and conservation and management measures.
These programmes have, therefore, been important channels for participative democracy, the rationale of the citizen for Europe.
We deplore the fact that the Commission, in its opinion of 26 January, limits itself to following the routine path of a standardised Europe enlarging towards the East, a centralised superstate operating on the basis of majority decisions.
I am delighted to be participating in the work of this House and to be informing you about the work which is being carried out collectively by all the countries and with the Commission. This work has one clear objective of allowing our European Union to participate as effectively as possible in the international sphere in peacekeeping operations.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.00 a.m.
I regret that the Commission has found Amendment No 10 to be unacceptable as far as the three-month period and the role of the Member State in which the service is provided are concerned.
In my opinion, Burma should be put back on the agenda, too, certainly in the wake of Indonesia' s U-turn.
I would like to say that the Council will only be able to respond to that part of your question in writing, at a later date.
Mr President, as far as the second reading is concerned, the Commission can only accept one proposed amendment put forward by Parliament.
Mr President, I thank Mr Nielson.
A very important proposal indeed.
How are we going to assess the results of these five years?
I should like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Olle Schmidt, and also Mr García-Margallo y Marfil, for their constructive approach.
Mr President, Commissioner Nielson, the conclusion of the new ACP-EU Convention is an important step towards greater coherence.
In essence, we are, of course, in favour of this LEADER + Community Initiative.
This method of disposal of cars carries no cost and so would eliminate the whole issue of who pays because the "dead" car would actually have a small value going into the recycling and reclamation process.
The second proposal expands the role which these important intermediary organisations can play within the EU capital markets in terms of developing the investment funds sector.
A hundred and twenty-nine chemical substances had to be regulated.
Finally, I should like to make three additional comments, quite briefly, Mr President.
We need it because it lends our criteria the necessary seriousness and credibility.
I would therefore make an urgent appeal to the Council of Ministers to finally face reality, that is to say the fact that crime is developing faster than the law.
In order to achieve this, women must be given the opportunity to combat the inertia of a society which has, until now, been essentially imbued with masculine values.
As important is the fact that Austria' s forces of democracy should be given support, as none of us wishes to isolate the country.
Mr President, I would once again like to congratulate Mr Koch on his magnificent work on this other report, which in a way supplements the debate which we held in October on rail transport.
Unfortunately, this did not happen. Mr Bernié is not to blame for this as it was a matter for the previous committee.
Liberalisation is not the only potential threat to post office services.
Violence begets violence, and revenge begets revenge.
If the French Government insists that we continue to meet in Strasbourg, it could at least ensure, where flights are diverted to Basle, that buses arrive on time to meet the diverted passengers, otherwise it is quite pointless for us to try to arrive here on Monday and attend to any kind of business.
Yesterday, a few of us met the Portuguese Defence Minister.
According to the documents, cooperation with the High Representative was fruitful.
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
I should like to mention a few specific points.
With this in mind, it goes without saying that nuclear plants a priori should not be built in areas prone to earthquakes.
We therefore need to augment our rate of employment with jobs that are competitive.
Likewise, the situation with regard to right of entry and residence rights should be clarified before the service provision card is issued, namely under the terms of an opposition procedure.
The Mediterranean region has had to fight for its development by trying to overcome this adversity, century after century, year after year, day after day, and is still doing so today.
This well-known phrase, which is taken from the conclusions of the UN World Conference on human rights of 1993, is known off by heart by many.
So who is this then?
However, I feel very strongly that as water is life and access to clean drinking water is a basic human right, this directive must allow for a basic domestic water provision free of charge, a quota per household for drinking, cooking and sanitation.
Secondly, at the end of 1999 unbelievable storms raged bringing death and destruction to vast tracts of the EU.
But let me remind honourable Members that the European Union is no slouch when it comes to financial support for the peace process.
Furthermore, they have taken on the task of creating a "scoreboard" to verify the progress made in this area at Community level, but also - and this seems to me to be important - at the level of the Member States.
In my opinion, Angola is a test case.
The Committee believes that projects financed under action 1 should place value on the potential of endogenous development, in particular based on local traditions, techniques and practices, on specific production and on the management of sustainable energy.
These impact studies are necessary in order to assess the effects of any untrammelled liberalisation, not just on the economic organisation of the market, but also in terms of its human and social aspects.
I am not sure exactly what it is, but it is not zero, therefore it must have some effect.
As the Parliament' s rapporteur on the staff elements of your report, Mr Kinnock, I very much welcome the fact that we are now starting the process, and if I may say to all colleagues here, we have a very important task to do, which will be absolutely central to the future of the Commission and its effectiveness.
The experts speak of a cultural problem, I think they might be right!
We need to table a strong text and that text needs to be adopted.
Bearing in mind the failed efforts of the last decade, as highlighted by Mr Koch, does Commissioner Liikanen believe that he can do something during his term of office to ensure that the Community dimension of tourism becomes a proper policy, given the importance that all the previous speakers have given to tourism in terms of employment?
I want to stress, however, that whatever the programme is called, our commitment to the integration of FYROM and its neighbours into the European family is stronger than ever.
However, if you wish to enter into the realms of philosophy, go ahead!
Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to highlight the excellent work carried out by Mrs Berger and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market generally, which has incorporated innovative ideas into this directive, which I hope will be approved by the Commission and the Council.
The Commission points out that, according to the national legislation of some Member States, the use of OTC derivatives for general investment purposes is already authorised.
This is the way forward if we are to ensure uniform conditions of competition.
We need to provide alternative answers, otherwise episodes such as those seen in Seattle will be repeated over and over and will come to hamper one of Europe' s positive roles in history.
I can already hear your reply: humanitarian standards.
. (PT) Mr President, I am sure that the issue raised by my friend Elmar Brok will be considered by the Council.
Consequently, I do not see that there is any real obstacle to the Council' s being able to move matters on quickly as far as these two draft directives are concerned.
What you just said is absolutely true: people want more engaged democracy.
An enlarged Europe must build on the existing strengths of the Union.
(The sitting was closed at 12.25 p.m.)
With the framework directive on water policy, we are hoping to end the fragmentation of the EU' s water legislation.
Mr President, this directive deals with the comparatively small but growing problem of abandoned cars and the question of a more structured disposal of all cars at the end of their life.
Mr President, I join others in wishing Portugal every good wish for a successful presidency.
It is now possible, on the basis of Article 280 of the Treaty, that the Commission will take new initiatives, and I would like to suggest to the Commission that it do this at the earliest opportunity.
In fact, the Commission desires this reform in order to become a model of excellence for the whole of Europe and the world.
However, the past year was positively marked by some momentous decisions, such as the decision to begin implementing the Treaty of Amsterdam, the decision to incorporate the Schengen Agreement into the Community pillar, and the decision of the Cologne Council to create a Charter of Fundamental Rights and the decision of the Extraordinary European Council in Tampere to bind the Member States to common directions, priorities and goals with a view to creating a common area of freedom, security and justice.
We must take very serious note of the need to upgrade the human resources engaged in tourism, so that tourism will be able to respond to the new technological challenges of our age.
I personally believe that the scope of the directive goes beyond its objective.
For this very reason, we cannot agree to cut pensions further.
It is therefore a positive step that the movement of workers within the European Union is being made easier, even when they are nationals of third countries.
The entire Federation is allowing itself to be taken in by the war propaganda.
There is an error which has still not been corrected and that is on Amendment No 4.
Having listened to the justice and home affairs ministers, I am optimistic and I am assuming that we will succeed in the next six months.
Peat is not mentioned in the list of renewable energy sources.
I refuse to allow myself to be ostracised for internal and party political reasons!
A Minister from one of the Caribbean islands which produce sugar cane once told me: If you just allowed our sugar access to the European Union, we would not need your development aid at all.
It would be beneficial if we could reorganise this, especially vis-à-vis the neighbouring states.
They can merely serve as an extremely useful complement to what we are developing and expecting from the Commission in terms of social legislation.
This has been the year in which policies on justice and home affairs have been provided with a Community framework.
You are no doubt aware that approximately 200 000 birds are going to die as a result of this oil slick, which is a major ecological disaster, practically unprecedented in scale.
Economic and social cohesion in the EU is a fundamental task of this Community.
Cuba has observer status but I understand has now shown a wish to join the ACP.
The big question, however, is from what budget heading should this aid be financed?
In that year, we voted against granting discharge.
Mr President, Commissioner, the guidelines are intended to help steer the Member States towards achieving the reform objectives contained in the programmes.
Madam President, I voted in favour of the Schmidt report on the regulation of investments in transferable securities because, as I stated in this Chamber this morning, I consider it very important that the monies of the citizens of the European Union be put to good use.
In this connection, the Commission is proposing to limit yet further the cooperation actions of local action groups to only candidate countries.
This debate is therefore added at the top of the order of business.
Today, we have the statement by Mr Andersson.
The creation of the interim structures and the plans that are now being put into place to provide the military capacity for achieving EU policy objectives are positive steps in the right direction.
Regarding the problems caused by air travel delays, perhaps everybody who has had difficulty reaching Strasbourg for the present part-session should form a small group - although I am not sure that it will be small - to discuss the precise nature of the problems encountered.
This basically involves relations between the European Union and the Atlantic Alliance and relations between the European Union and those countries which, although geographically in Europe, are not part of the European Union, or at least not at the moment.
It ought to have been here in writing today and, after having heard Mr Nielson' s speech, I can well imagine that he is up against a lot of powerful opposition in the Commission.
I have good reason for asking this.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt, we already have a TÜV (organisation for safety testing) for ships in the form of the classification companies.
This is generally recognised and this happens in all wars, and the Kosovo war was not a clean war, nor a model war, but a war based on the art of the possible.
The women' s conference in Beijing brought an important point to light.
This is also expressed in Recital 14.
I have no doubt further reform of EU institutions will be analysed in this debate.
I have not yet heard a convincing security-policy explanation of why the European Union needs to establish autonomous, decision-making capabilities for the use of military forces outside of the NATO structures unless it is to create bodies which will rival NATO.
Nevertheless, the events of the last few days show that all those who had made basic criticisms of the way enlargement and the revision of the Treaties have been planned were right.
It has assassinated the spokesman of the Popular Party in the town council of San Sebastián, Gregorio Ordóñez.
That is the same as a single, medium-sized, German opera house' s expenditure over the same period, when here in Europe this sum has been earmarked for 29 countries over a period of five years!
We have here an agreement which, in spite of its defects, constitutes a significant step forward for the issue of copyright.
People must realise this!
RINA is currently the talk of the town.
This is how we are going to judge the success of these guidelines: whether EU regional policy with a good, solid, enabling guideline, can open up new opportunities and allow our poor and structurally weak regions to play their full part in contributing to the growth and prosperity of the EU.
The selection criteria and the activities that are subsidised under LEADER do, in the best case, moderate some partial problems of the countryside, which are of secondary importance, but in the worst case they degenerate into expenditure for the sake of public relations and pandering to conscience.
Members should however represent all the citizens, which means it is their duty to think not in terms of business management but in terms of the national economy.
The WWF reports that, according to Italian, French and Spanish customs authorities, illegal bluefin fishing and landings of small fish are on the increase.
This is the essence of my oral question on behalf of all the members of the Committee on Fisheries.
Whether we are talking about beef to France or about backhanders to industry, EU Member States must not be allowed to flout the law.
The overall aim of the reforms must be to create a strong, honest European public administration equipped to carry out its tasks in an effective and efficient manner; an administration in which officials are provided with the means to carry out their tasks and are held fully accountable at all levels; an administration that recognises and rewards merit and encourages officials to develop their full potential.
Provided it is not seen as some kind of constraint but as a willingness to cooperate, as an opportunity that each country should grasp, then this is the right approach.
That is why I should like to support the Social Democrats' request to hold the vote on Friday.
On one hand we have the exuberance of the financial markets and the explosion of wealth and, on the other, more widespread exclusion.
I do not believe that there is broad support in Europe for the introduction of qualified majority voting on taxation, justice and home affairs, and foreign affairs at European Union level.
At the same time, the social and economic problems facing European society are more pronounced in urban areas.
These are three areas in which many Danish companies are experiencing major problems and are being squeezed out of their markets.
With regard to costs, I would like clarification of what costs we are talking about.
This Amendment could also lead to different interpretations in the Member States, which might well look for similar instruments in other articles of the directive.
We respect and accept the discussion that is taking place and also appreciate the concerns that are being voiced in many of our Member States as to the way ahead for Austria.
This has been an environmental disaster as well as a deplorable waste of resources.
But we have enough agreements now: Oslo, Wye Plantation, Sharm el-Sheikh.
The next item is the continuation of the debate on the recommendation for second reading of the Community action in the field of water policy.
We are of course entering a grey area here, and you may say, Mr Marset Campos, that these are civilian targets, such as bridges and road and rail infrastructure, whilst others will tell me that they are military targets, because they are targets which support military structures in aggressive campaigns such as those carried out by Mr Milosevic' s forces in Kosovo.
This is a hugely important component of the system of checks and balances to ensure that Member States and operators are complying with Community legislation.
But we also know that we can only shape the huge challenge of globalisation together as Europeans.
Have we achieved results?
Thank you for your attention during our night sitting together.
I would like to remind you of one thing: it is dangerous to rethink the entire governance of the European Union from here.
The first amendment proposes to change the legal base of the proposal by replacing Article 37 with Article 152.
I interpret it as saying that you agree that what is needed is an action plan to enable more women to take part in specific environmental fields.
The fleet must therefore use increasingly selective fishing gear.
I strongly support the decisions taken at Sintra.
This is the intention and it must be the ultimate goal.
But a number of the amendments go too far in restricting the use of over-the-counter derivatives.
All laudable stuff.
Low wages, the lack of housing - some are living in cardboard huts - the lack of access to social services and the de facto system of apartheid are abominable and unacceptable and are not worthy of the respect which every human being deserves.
This solution would not, in our opinion, be a fair one and indeed the Commission would have no irrefutable figures to support it.
We would accept the division of the Treaties providing it would not limit the control the smaller Member States had in the re-negotiation of the whole policy area of the Treaty.
The introduction to this statement acknowledges under the quality of life section that it is important.
Mrs Theato has already expressed as much and I am only too willing to support her in this regard.
It is therefore a time for solidarity and cooperation between Member States in the face of an ecological and economic calamity.
That is true and potentially valuable, although I have to say - and I have said to Chinese officials as has the presidency - that there has not been nearly as much content to our dialogue as we would have liked.
That concludes the vote
That is the entire programme for the next five years on the question of internal security, freedom, citizens' rights and judicial cooperation.
You do not need to wait for a new amendment to the Treaty.
At the same time, unemployment is spiralling as a result of the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs.
Tourism is a social, economic and cultural phenomenon which affects most European citizens, either as the recipients or the providers of a wide variety of services.
For example, uncontrolled migration has not been given sufficient consideration.
However, while I welcome the renewal of the agreements, what I find most interesting is the new wind blowing through our relationships and finding expression in the balanced nature of the negotiations now drawing to a close.
The French text contains the word "refuse" and the English text the word "shall" , which means that the Commission is to keep secret such information as is today available to the public, for example in my own country.
It would certainly be unwise for my fellow Members in the major groups of the federalist tendency to seek to make the European Parliament unpopular in this way by creating a liability shared between the owner and the manufacturer.
It is the task of the monitoring committee for OLAF, which was set up at the same time as OLAF, to safeguard the independence of OLAF, however it cannot undertake the action mentioned in the report of monitoring internal investigative activities conducted by OLAF.
However, the European Parliament will be reinforced politically by the Treaty resulting from this Intergovernmental Conference. This is for one very simple reason: according to the agreements made in Helsinki, this Intergovernmental Conference will lead to issues, which are currently decided unanimously, being decided by a qualified majority.
That is something we must guard against.
Lastly, Mr President, I would like to highlight the work carried out by the volunteers and local authorities, who reminded me of old times when, as the then Mayoress, I lived through similar situations.
I will not detain the Parliament for long but perhaps I could make one or two points and begin, which is sometimes rather dangerous in any Parliament, by drawing attention to the relationship between rhetoric and reality.
I therefore hope, firstly, that our fellow Members will support us in the conciliation - but votes on this area are always very much in agreement - but also that the Council and the Commission will manage to listen to us and that we shall each take a step towards the other.
I am therefore voting against the proposal.
We hope that we can count on the support of Parliament, and - why not say it - of the Council to secure these resources and to achieve these objectives, so that the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice becomes a reality as soon as possible, thus allowing us all to contribute, in a spirit of interinstitutional cooperation, to the realisation of this project, which is, without a doubt, the "jewel in the crown" of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The Commission shares the growing concern about the missing Russian journalist, Mr Babitsky and the conditions for the independent media in Chechnya more generally.
And, again, I urge you, Madam President, to look at the standard of translation that we are receiving currently.
Mr President, Commissioner, as my time is limited, I shall get straight to the point.
(Parliament rejected the request, with 164 votes for, 166 votes against and 7 abstentions)
Mr President, may I commence by congratulating the rapporteur, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, on his report.
This is particularly important in order to increase the efficiency of the funds deployed.
In this context, the European Union must consider, as it began to do early this week, how to include the neighbouring Yugoslavia in regional cooperation in spite of everything, i.e. without taking back any of our criticism of this terrible regime.
My first point is that Parliament must not be excluded from the important decisions to be taken in this area and that its participation in the decision-making process must be guaranteed, especially with regard to this project which affects the citizens, as the Commissioner has explained very well.
Then the content: the Council draft fudges the obvious difficulty caused by widely differing legal systems, varying practices and a total lack of legal public service standards in certain Member States of the Union.
The Austrian extreme right has been gifted an unwarranted present.
In any case, the European Parliament would be honoured to take up the call of the people to control the world in order to achieve a sense of well-being for everyone.
It is essential that this long overdue step be taken.
I think that, in this way, the European Parliament is excluding itself from the discussion at the very moment that an extremely interesting development is taking place in the European Union where a very wide, socio-economic agenda is being drawn up much more clearly.
Nevertheless, to avoid the customary circus, which every six months has us indiscriminately attacking the Presidency of the Council, maybe Parliament should find the courage to undertake incisive political action so that the next Intergovernmental Conference will decide to increase codecision with immediate effect and not wait for another five years.
.
Another matter we would like to address, specifically from the point of view of industrial policy, is that we would have liked the Commission to pay more attention to the effects of services, electronic commerce and the growing use of the Internet, when they were planning the coordination of Structural Funds and Cohesion Funds.
Commissioner, the ignorance of certain Member States has landed us in a major food crisis here in Europe, and I am afraid that once more I have cause to be angry at the fact that again no Members of the Council are in attendance, and that on the day that you present your interesting report.
Firstly, the classic Eurofederalist ideological shift, a single market, a single VAT, a single diplomatic service, a single army and now a single criminal code and a single public prosecutor.
The sums needed to create useful jobs in public services and finance the distribution of work among everyone, without cutting wages, must be taken from the profits of large companies.
In any event, Article 255 does not, at first sight, allow work to be done on any basis that could affect the principle of subsidiarity.
Secondly, a genuine effort is required to make administrative procedures simpler and more transparent, since, they are all too often unnecessarily lengthy and complicated, to the point of hindering access to the Funds. This is something about which European small and medium-sized businesses, in particular, tend to complain.
I am not looking for such rigidly high recycling quotas when it comes to special-purpose vehicles either.
'Restore hope' , do you remember?
The unanimity principle was at the root of this debacle.
As regards eliminating the pollution generated by dangerous substances in the aquatic environment, an optimum approach should provide a regulation at both national and Community levels, which enables clearer identification of the various classes of bodies of water polluted as a result of human production activities.
I would, however, like to draw your attention to the fact that the President-in-Office, who has been so critical of Austria, has recently consigned the inhabitants of Macao to the sovereign rule of the People' s Democratic Republic of China.
Fourthly, we need the shipowner to bear liability, and not just to the tune of a derisory USD 12 million, but to the value of at least USD 400 million, to be covered per insurance certificate.
At the same time, the struggle against impunity is under threat.
This text says nothing about the major democratic and political problems involving monetary union and the European Central Bank. This is untenable.
I will therefore step beyond the confidence usually shared between Member States and the Commission and I will find out exactly what is happening on this specific point.
One applies to the principle of treating people equally, without differentiating on the grounds of race or ethnic origin. The other proposal will provide protection at work against discrimination on the grounds of ethnic or racial origin, religion, handicap or sexual persuasion.
We have to work with these countries and involve them so that if such a crisis arises, which I hope will not be the case, all forces and all countries will be more than welcome.
My second point concerns the resumption of negotiations between Syria and Israel.
The proposed exhaustive collection of data and the appropriate management of this data will be very valuable in helping to tackle the revision of the common fisheries policy in a more rigorous manner.
The European Union' s water policy is not starting from zero.
The Amsterdam leftovers is not a very good term, because they are very important subjects in themselves.
Furthermore, it contains more acceptable systematics and is clearer and more transparent.
Behind these principles, Mr President, lies the justice system.
Where equality is concerned, the gulf between the actual and the ideal is nowhere more apparent than in the area of decision making.
I am going to be so unwise as to allow one or two personal reflections to creep into my remarks.
Mr President, it is important that the guidelines head in the right direction and that they guarantee the effectiveness of the programmes of the crucial seven-year period 2000-2006 so as to ensure sustainable development and job creation, particularly for women and young people, and ensure a balance is struck between economic and social policy and regional policy.
We are establishing a Commission crisis centre as the operational interface with the situation centre in the high representative' s policy unit.
Thanks to the grass-roots involvement, which this House furthered by organising a debate and adopting a resolution on 20 January, an initial raft of measures has been announced.
A systematic survey of the various national regulations is needed if barriers to competition are to be dismantled.
Parts of it have been strengthened, but other parts may well contain too many compromises.
We agree with the rapporteur regarding his criticism of the fact that, despite the rules laid down in the sixth Steel Aid Code, the Commission has frequently authorised aid to companies which do not correspond to the categories in that Code.
I would also like to thank the Minister and the Commissioner for their statements and I agree with the Commissioner' s statement; it is time that fine words were translated into action.
The story went that an official in the Commission had apparently told an Austrian businessman that, because he was Austrian, he would possibly be excluded from being able to participate in a scientific development project together with businesses in other countries, including Denmark.
It is true, I admit it, and you are well aware of the reasons, ladies and gentlemen.
But we have the impression that this growth, sustained firstly by the performance of the United States, and then by the productivity gains of the new economy, by the new information and communication technologies, is driven by the general world situation, even despite our handicaps.
These include car manufacturers, second-hand car dealers, the federation of the car industry, the metal processing firms, shredding firms and the government.
I say it again, the European Union' s cooperation and development policy is not coherent. and on behalf of the Green Group I call on Parliament, the institutions and the Commission to make a joint effort, at long last, to put some coherence into our policy.
50 is exactly the level of development of my own region, the Azores, one of the regions defined in the Treaties as ultra-peripheral.
Will the Union manage to display a united front and develop a common policy, for the first time, concerning such a difficult regulation?
So let me state quite clearly here, on behalf of my group, that we discussed at length with Mrs Cederschiöld whether it is reasonable to work like this.
We must emphasise Europe' s spiritual history.
It would be appropriate, however, for us also to mention some points which should be at the focus of future WIPO work or the work of other diplomatic conferences.
(FR) In the opinion which it has just adopted on the convening of the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, the European Parliament calls for a "constitutional process to be launched" .
Mr President, in the course of the last few years there has been a succession of serious tanker disasters world-wide and the countermeasures taken have either been ineffective or not worth mentioning.
The agreement also concerns questions dealt with in accordance with the co-decision-making procedure.
You have shown us the way, Mr Monti, with the single market scoreboard.
This is why we need to set up inter-service task groups in the Commission, in the Council and in Parliament which can police the attainment of coherence.
Let me briefly say that historic and vintage vehicles must, of course, be exempt from the scope of this directive.
The procedural aspect of the legal system must be respected by defending the rights...
The Commission is not a State. It cannot and must not act as if it were one.
We obviously know that, even within any one country, there are always contradictions between various policies.
The next item is the report (A5-0022/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council decision providing exceptional Community financial assistance to Kosovo (COM(99)0598 - C5-0045/00 - 1999/0240(CNS)).
We have opposed racism and the infringement of the rights of minorities.
We Liberals are prepared to go a long way and to do so quickly, just as Paolo Costa reported.
Why would it not work elsewhere?
If the services of the Presidency confirm that this was correctly tabled, it will be included.
Indeed, we are talking about criminal law, the area where resistance that national States put up to communitisation is, and will be, fierce.
I would, during my two minutes, like to draw attention to two countries which are close to my heart.
Having said all that, I must say that unfortunately, my group will not be voting for your report as a united front.
Mr President, this, as Mrs Theato said, is a critical report.
Here there are three elements I would like to contribute.
Lending forestry equipment and making personnel qualified in forestry management available are also covered by this measure.
I would like to remind the House of something which we often forget, and that is that the investiture of the Prodi Commission, last September, received wide support. In our opinion, this demonstrates that the majority of us are in favour of progress and in favour of Europe.
Ladies and gentlemen, we now have a European Union where the disparities between countries are observed to be less great, proving the effectiveness and worth of the Cohesion Fund, but where, at the same time, in relation to unemployment - as you wrote, Mrs Schroedter - an increasing gap exists between the 15 or 20 richest regions and the 15 or 20 poorest or most disadvantaged regions. This is a situation which is, as it should be, unjustifiable and intolerable.
Lastly, I would like to stress the issue of liability. Not only in terms of maximum sums insured, which I believe should be similar to those in the United States.
Do not take too long to send it back.
We know that the Commission proposal does not go far enough; unfortunately this also applies to the proposal by the Committee on the Environment.
Today we are expressing a positive opinion on the opening of negotiations for a stabilisation and association agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Macedonia.
When we consider that a conference will soon be held in Moscow, it becomes clear that the European Union' s presence in this peace process is somewhat pitiful.
Mr Dimitrakopoulos, transparency is naturally an issue of concern to the institutions.
Many people in my country say they see British culture being under threat, for example, from Portugal, from Germany, from Finland, for heaven' s sake.
In other words, we should not establish conditionality, or we believe that it is more effective not to establish conditionality from the start, but, nevertheless, we should establish it with regard to the possible liberalisation of the second stage.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Lienemann report (A5-0014/2000)
The agenda must go much further. We must be much more daring with regard to the issues dealt with in the IGC and we must be much more transparent and much more democratic.
It was none the worse for that, but perhaps I will be forgiven for concentrating very largely on the report because there are some extremely important issues that I want to touch on.
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
Your Commission consists of the only 20 people in the EU who can propose that the quantity of legislation should be reduced.
I must admit that I have my doubts about this.
Even if negotiations are not completed by September of this year, there is nothing in the relevant treaties to prevent a Palestinian state from being proclaimed after that date.
Many personalities and institutions have come out in favour of this tax such as the Brazilian President, Fernando Cardoso, the Finnish Government, the Canadian Parliament last March and also Lionel Jospin in 1995.
Mr President, the shipwreck of the Erika off the coast of Brittany on 12 December caused an oil slick whose effects on the environment will be felt for years.
We shall not accept a date for the liberalisation of all activities in the postal sector until the Commission has offered us a guarantee that the universal service will be integrated into this directive and that the public postal service will be maintained in the States which consider this service essential to the citizen.
Report (A5-0029/2000) by Mr Brok, on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, on the proposal for a Council regulation on the implementation of operations in the framework of the pre-accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta (COM(1999) 535 - C5-0308/1999 - 1999/0199(CNS))
(Applause)
As regards the existing directive and its implementation, most Member States have taken the necessary legal measures to transpose the directive.
We have worked closely with Portuguese NGOs and with some initiatives they have proposed within the framework of the Portuguese Presidency, which we are combining with the wide range of concerns underpinning our whole programme.
We all agree that ensuring water quality is a hugely important objective, above all, given the adverse effects of developing a model of accelerated industrial growth on the natural environment.
However, there are still fewer than 200 trained police officers to contribute to clearing up crime. A year ago, we did of course see what happens when agreements and resolutions which have been made are not followed up.
Thank you very much, Commissioner, for your reply, although I regret the fact that this working group has taken so long to meet, since this matter is of the greatest importance.
I deeply regret that only limited funds are available for this initiative.
The investment needs to be visionary.
I am not going to say much more on these issues.
We also need the country whose flag the ship flies to bear liability.
Mr President, for the Socialist Group I can say we will be supporting the draft opinion put forward by the rapporteurs on behalf of the Constitutional Affairs Committee.
This would mean that the EU would unjustly be removing tasks from Member States and that the Brussels bureaucracy would be intervening unnecessarily.
With regard to the specific application of this partnership principle within the next Community support framework for Greece, the Commission has noted that the public authorities were largely involved during the preparation of the Greek regional development plan for the 2000-2006 period.
Coming from a country which does have a car manufacturing industry, I can tell you that it is not possible, retroactively, to impose on them the total financial costs for all vehicles of their makes currently on the road, i.e. effectively making them bear the costs arising from 80% of the total number of cars in Europe.
These concerns are legitimate and there are good reasons for them.
I think we need to seize the opportunity.
(The President declared the common position approved as amended)
I should like to close by stressing the essential role which the European Union should play in promoting new forms of tourism in new places which will allow continental Europeans to discover the most far-flung destinations in Europe, namely the most remote regions.
If not, why not?
These are real problems, but they have all been dealt with.
We must create a cross-border culture, and to this end we must be innovative with regard to administrative cooperation, imaginatively overcoming existing barriers and overcoming the difficulties posed by the differing levels of competence in each Member State, in each region and each municipality.
I will mention two point that may create tension.
This uranium becomes air-borne, is inhaled and could now be effectively carried by members of the population in Kosovo with rather more long-term effects than it has been possible to establish so far.
Furthermore, three quarters of our farm workers are part-time and require supplements to their incomes.
In fact, the obligation for coherence of policy was even included in the Treaty of Amsterdam in 1997.
Let me turn to the assistance provided so far.
Nowadays, let us face it, the Joint Assembly is seen as an obstacle to free international trade by the dogmatisers in Geneva and Washington.
Justice needs to be done in East Timor.
Hence, to my mind, that includes having the courage to amend Article 4 of the EC Treaty, which defines the Union in traditional neoliberal style as an open market economy with free competition. The same applies to Article 105, in my view, for the European Central Bank must at last be given the political task as enshrined in the Treaty, of using its monetary policy to promote sustained growth and employment.
Mr President, I was not referring to that particular vote but to votes in general.
For the European Union of the future to be able to function more effectively, more democratically and with complete transparency, clearly what we need is an extensive and in-depth reform of the institutions and the way they work.
We all belong on the same boat and want to row with you.
How will these people be selected?
It may well be that you, having belonged to one of the last Communist dictatorships, view the situation somewhat differently to the majority of people in this Chamber, and that you have problems where good governance is concerned.
We have tried to defend peace by taking military action.
The separation of these two proposals which deal with two different sets of problems would facilitate the negotiating process in the Council.
The emphasis will be on long-term reforms covering health financing as well as training and procurement.
I also wish to express my concern to ensure good cooperation between INTERREG and the EDF, particularly for the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean.
Mr President, we have said in this House time and again since the BSE crisis that feedingstuffs are one of the first and most important factors in safe food production and in consumer health and protection.
In other words, as indeed already remarked by Mr Gasòliba, globalisation is, in my view, positive, and I am of the opinion that it has contributed to a new international distribution of labour which has been pursued by many people for many years.
Quite, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, this is not the first time and it is indeed most worrying.
Our Group categorically condemns this perception and, in this sense, does not intend to support this resolution.
Also, some of the targets which are set at close to zero - in English, that is quite a meaningless term.
The cost will not therefore disappear, but now we are clarifying whose liability it is and how the cost is to be distributed.
Madame President, my group, the EDD, and especially my party, are very concerned by this debate.
We need a timetable, by all means, but a more gradual timetable.
On behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party, I have tabled an amendment to the motion for a resolution which asks the Council to produce a text on this issue as soon as possible.
Madam President, it is with great regret that I have to trouble you yet again with an issue that I have raised here twice before.
Can I just make it clear that we have no commitment to a corpus juris here, no commitment to a federal European public prosecutor.
We therefore hope to benefit from the capable and consistent participation of members of national parliaments at all of our meetings, and this will be a channel which will ably supplement the ones in the Commission' s initiative.
And then perhaps everyone will stop bandying about arguments which are asking for trouble!
We must examine whether any changes are needed to this end which would fall within the scope of the Intergovernmental Conference.
As I have said, my colleague, Commissioner Wallström, is on the spot today.
Although these floods began three weeks ago, the whole world has finally begun to wake up to the dire straits Mozambique currently finds itself in: there are thousands of people whose lives are hanging by a thread and who will soon die unless we arrange transport, particularly air transport, to get them out of the situation they are in.
No new knowledge was needed, because the theory from the beginning was that BSE and scrapie must be related and this theory has increasingly taken hold.
The possibility of using specified external channels will also be addressed.
This certainly does not mean that I do not share the concern in Sweden surrounding the possible health problems which can be caused by alcohol abuse.
This is a positive move and we welcome it, but I believe we need to equip the individuals concerned with an instrument and with strategy planning for what they are actually going to have to prepare, for elections are planned for the autumn.
The Court of Auditors publishes its report, which criticises the Member States on account of various incidences of fraud.
It is about keeping communities together.
For competition is not an end in itself; it is there to serve of the citizen, the consumer, which is why we should consider the areas in which we do not want it.
Mr President, I am happy to take the floor in the debate on this report and I congratulate Mrs Theato.
This is particularly valid for the region of the Azores which I have just mentioned and also for all most remote regions. It is also valid for certain regions handicapped by their isolation due to mountains, for example.
Finally, if the Treaty needs to be amended, how do you think this amendment will be implemented, following the report to be submitted in Feira? How will it be incorporated into the more general procedure for amending the institutional framework of the Treaty and how do you think this will fit in with the possibility of a system of qualified majority voting?
In offering this explanation of my vote, therefore, I wished to express my deep dissatisfaction and my deep concern.
I very much agree with you on that, but we can take nothing for granted.
We should not be so naïve as to think otherwise.
We need to recognise that water is a joint liability.
We back the rapporteur' s proposal to introduce regional parliamentary assemblies, under the aegis of the Joint Assembly, in the six regions of the Convention: the Caribbean, the Pacific and four African regions.
The various groups, be they environmental organisations or groups concerned with employment, have the possibility of taking part in drafting the Commission directives.
Recently, both Sweden and Denmark urged the Commission in the Council of Ministers to take the initiative and ban brominated flame retardants.
Of course we have to take account of the competitiveness of the feedingstuffs industry by harmonising provisions for substances authorised before and after 1988.
In particular, I am referring to the fact that this report - and I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this - defends the European social model' s approach, which is one based on solidarity.
As Vaclav Havel rightly said today, the European Union will be judged on its political qualities according to what it can do for the individual.
This means that we need a pressure instrument.
This is something we have borne in mind.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
We also hope to conduct this initiative in consultation with the national parliaments, local elected representatives, non-governmental organisations, socio-professional organisations and the media.
Projects have to be carried out more efficiently, more flexibly and they have to be made more productive.
This is a place where we share the same values and where each and one of us also have our own task and responsibility.
. I would stress that no GMOs have been approved under this directive; it applies only to additives.
We must not generate a confusion and conflict of jurisdictions about rights, for that would be the enemy of freedom, justice and security.
Mrs Izquierdo Rojo, I would ask all of you - and do not take this as a warning - to deal with strictly Community matters.
This resolution of 14 January 1999 required that, prior to undertaking any liberalisation of this key sector, involving 1.7 million employees after all, the Commission should provide impact studies for this liberalisation.
The Internet is not a product of the market, but the result of research financed by the American army.
Mr President, we all recall that Parliament decided to postpone the discharge for the 1997 financial year pending commitments from the new European Commission regarding internal reform.
According to the International Transport Federation, over 40% of the ships wrecked in 1998 were sailing under flags of convenience, the symbol of profit and the exploitation of human beings at the expense of safety.
We have a huge task in reconstruction and we will be judged according to how we fulfil it.
It is especially unrealistic in regard to agriculture which is most dependent upon a clean natural environment and unpolluted resources.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt said that nothing had ever been done.
This will certainly be the guideline that my government for one will advocate for the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Well, if the charterer is exonerated, then of course he is less concerned with the inspections which oil companies are responsible for.
In Finland surface waters are very clean.
The situation of the Palestinians has always been the core issue of the conflict.
Some workers have complained to the European Commission because they do not have the right to retire.
They will look into the matter thoroughly.
Nevertheless, new objectives have been included, specifically the financing of the Nature Network 2000, for which all rural regions will be eligible.
This is all the worse - as is the case with the second part of this reform - when responsibility for implementing the legislation lies with national authorities.
We can salute them, these postmen who, whatever the weather, sometimes walk for miles to be able to offer this service to everyone.
And, because there are a number of you who have just pointed out what appeared to you to be an omission, let me also add the regional economies of the European regions handicapped by their distance from the centre, be they remote regions, island regions or, of course, the most remote regions which are, naturally, the most distant.
By contrast, I welcome the attentive presence of Commissioner Vitorino, as has consistently been the case since his appointment. This leads me to another point.
The environmental implications must also be taken very seriously.
It has been useful to debate human rights twice in a couple of days.
LEADER must now move into the implementation phase.
Rapkay Report (A5-0078/1999)
Mr President, this is one of the few occasions when, from what the speakers have said in this Parliament, from all sides of the House, there is clearly the greatest convergence of views on the Cyprus issue and, of course, on the pre-accession process for Cyprus and Malta.
Ecological tax reform is what my group would like to stress the importance of, because we can only create employment and sustainable development by changing our taxation structure. But, unfortunately, as we all know, this is an area where the European Union is totally unable to act.
Culture is at the root of our democratic beliefs; and an uncultured society is not going to sustain tolerance and freedom and democracy.
We need to make progress with concrete and consistent action.
However, Mrs Lienemann' s report also says that the river basins receiving the transferred water must save and protect their water.
But we also need to be aware that it is by virtue of rational political stances, and flexibility in negotiations, that we are able to find solutions to the major disputes which have ultimately led to many tragedies in history.
European postal services
In other words, do we have ways of checking what is happening with this government policy in Greece?
Commissioner Barnier, I know - at least I think I know - that you and the representatives of the Portuguese Presidency share these values: make the most of the chances you were given by the December Conference to include these subjects and principles, because this is the only way we will build a lasting Europe.
I regret to say that this report, due to its link with the environment, seems to have provided an occasion for those with this type of view to introduce their own particular misconceptions.
Everything else is wishful thinking.
I would like to congratulate the regional authorities, the volunteers and the public services on the fantastic way in which they rallied round but, unfortunately, their troubles are not yet over.
Lastly, we would vote for the amendments tabled by the Confederal Group of the European United Left.
We take note and this will appear in the Minutes.
The Council therefore expressed its satisfaction, in its December conclusions, at the substantial contributions announced by the European Commission, which will indirectly assist in returning the situation to normal, together with similar contributions made by Member States.
It is based on the principle of reconciling the need to maintain a substantial amount of financial resources in a period of limited official development assistance budgets with the need to make Community aid more effective.
The silence of the major powers and our own silence are questionable and are benefiting a regime of corruption, violence and war.
There will be no problem with Danish nationals within Denmark, that is not where the problem lies.
It is therefore strategically important that responsibility for water is established.
Obviously, the basic item for discussion with the Council will be the allocation for LIFE III.
The Commission is committed to liberalisation because experience has shown that the old monopolies are unable to provide the efficient service which a modern society expects.
All people, regardless of their location or social status, must have access to the postal service on an equal footing and subject to the same conditions.
I cannot answer that question.
Today, we are focusing upon the ways in which more women might be able to participate in the decision-making process.
Let me set out where matters now stand on these negotiations to which - as Mr Lagendijk said - other countries in the region are looking with very considerable interest.
We have often employed instruments which, at the formal level, make us feel comfortable, but which, in terms of practical results, are totally ineffectual.
Maybe he was referring to the Treaty of Amsterdam, Article 6 of which lists certain principles and Article 7 certain procedures, in order to establish that a Member State is seriously and continuously violating the principles referred to in Article 6.
Berger Report (A5-0007/2000)
I therefore support the overall thrust of Amendment No 105, which is in line with the Commission' s original proposal.
So that is another potential effect and one that we must prevent.
We must also critically examine the classification societies.
That is why we as a group are in favour of the Intergovernmental Conference.
And it is about four times the postage cost actually charged.
Madame President, the people of Austria have spoken by electing Herr Haider to their Parliament.
But, secondly, the projects will put a strain on, indeed will be injurious to, the national democracies.
I shall also mention the German Socialist Party which dares to preach to us about the second world war, when it is international socialist in the way that its peers were National Socialists, still goose-stepping, the party of the Waffen SS...
Yet this is not the situation.
However, the Committee on the Environment has tabled numerous amendments, most of which I support.
Investment in OTC derivatives, however, should only be allowed on condition that both quantitative and qualitative criteria are introduced.
I condemn this, as well as the Council' s absence.
Because we are aware that the developing global economic situation, and particularly the single market, can force businesses to resort more frequently to insolvency proceedings, which often take the form of cross-border proceedings, the Union itself is fully justified in equipping itself with the binding legal instruments it needs to ensure that insolvency proceedings are carried out according to a set of common structural principles, thus ensuring that they are carried out swiftly.
The path which the Commission is walking is, in fact, obvious.
I would just like to take a moment to recall the events of last July: the outgoing Commission had been in crisis, I had just been nominated and you gave your preliminary approval of that nomination.
That being the case, since ALTENER is the only EU programme to have the exclusive aim of promoting renewable energy sources, it will certainly be have a key role.
This talks of the European Union as 'living proof that peace, stability, freedom and prosperity can be brought to a continent' and as a model showing the world the way forward. It concludes that 'our neighbours have the chance to join this prosperity, and we have a golden opportunity to enable them to do so' .
However, we must be sure to introduce certain conditions here.
Why?
The rule of law and the respect of rights and fundamental freedoms are the principles on which the European Union is based.
One of our difficulties is always going to be of course that the better we are at reform, the less anybody is going to know about it so we will be relying on our friends and partners in the European Parliament to explain with their customary generosity the full efforts being made by the Commission to properly serve the people of Europe.
Women and children were beaten.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has proposed many amendments which have, for the most part, been retained in the common position adopted by the Council.
If, for any reason, the balance achieved there should be considered by some to be a point of departure for new negotiations anywhere else, if some people destabilise this totality of facts and equilibrium by their attitude, they will be making a tragic mistake.
We simply had to take on board the fact that whilst we actually attained our goal in terms of content, of course the same could not be said of the financial aspect.
Surely Assad would be Barak' s ideal negotiating partner and not the Foreign Affairs Minister.
Previously, there was pride and pleasure taken in being part of a universally admired institution, but now staff are frequently demoralised by the unceasing criticism.
Mr Havel reminded us that the Union is not just about markets, about GDP growth, it is a Union of values that is reflected in the Treaties and is reflected in our obligations in the whole area of external assistance, reflected quite specifically in what we are charged to do.
Eighteen million unemployed and 50 million poor people within the European Union, despite its being one of the wealthiest regions in the world: these are the results of this competition which the European institutions intend to promote.
Mr President, it became known this week that two prominent Cambodian opposition papers have been threatened with closure because they are reported to have insulted the king and prime minister.
- (FR) It is with great satisfaction that I welcome this report on improved harmonisation in the training of safety advisers for the transport of dangerous goods.
How can there be any cooperation on criminal matters on that basis?
The internal market is the basis for our work.
Incidentally, it is ironic that the problem is much less serious for the feedingstuffs of our dogs, cats and other domestic animals.
These objectives are obviously intended to make employees as useful and usable as possible to the economy.
It is critical to note that the Commission has too often failed to act on the reforms recommended by the Court of Auditors.
However, they have received technical assistance and financial aid from the European Union in order to transpose the acquis communautaire.
(Applause)
As an extra precaution, I am validating this advice to our scientific committee.
Why has there been no Health and Safety Committee meeting since 1998?
We should not overlook the fact that, although quotas are an important point in recycling and recovery, they are by no means the only point.
The INTERREG initiative, launched in 1990 to prepare the border regions for a Europe without borders and therefore without nations, sits comfortably within this philosophy.
These countries do not yet qualify for a pre-accession agreement.
. (FR) I welcome the quality and the ambition of this report on LIFE.
Does anyone want to speak against Mrs Stenzel' s request, as supported by Mrs Ghilardotti?
That is not guaranteed.
But there are some who bear even more responsibility than the thugs who wielded the iron bars and knives: those who spread racist and xenophobic slander, those who indulge in anti-immigration demagoguery in Spain, Austria, France or elsewhere, sometimes even here in this House, are no better than those who take this stupid, reactionary demagoguery at face value.
Thank you, Mr Napolitano.
The date will be fixed as soon as the present regulation has been adopted.
I have here the local paper for my municipality, which reads, "The manager of the post office wishes to inform the local population that as of 3 January 2000" - you can see how topical this is - "the last collection will take place at 3.45 p.m. instead of at 4.30 p.m. as at present."
The aim at national and European level is to establish large action groups by tender, with a full description of the project for which external assistance is to be requested. We would expect from each technical office a full description of the product so that the work can be monitored and appraised.
This is all I can say.
The vote will take place on Thursday.
This request is fully in line with the vision held by the Special Representative of the UN in Kosovo, Mr Bernard Kouchner.
Mr President, this time last year the European Parliament set up a committee of independent experts chaired by Mr Middelhoek to investigate allegations of fraud, nepotism and corruption in the European Commission.
We would understand completely if you were not able to say anything else given the irresponsible attitude not only of the Commission, but also of this Parliament, and if you cannot do anything because there is no legal or financial framework for doing so.
I completely understand your concerns, and I feel that there is a need for effort and a certain degree of consistency within the European Union itself on this issue.
We have beef exported to southern Africa, to Namibia and South Africa, which then sell their indigenous beef to Swaziland, so that Swaziland can fill its export quota back to the European Union.
Chancellor Schüssel' s government will maintain the refugee policy of the former social democratic government led by Chancellor Klima.
That question calls for reflection, for debate and, if necessary, for action.
On reading both Commission documents, one learns that 1998 was the year in which the modernisation proposals introduced in 1997 were pursued and even partially completed, which is something our own ongoing parliamentary work has taught us.
The proposal for the Council decision allows for the making of the financial contribution by the Community to Member States engaged in the collection and management of data.
Social convergence is also needed before the enlargement of the Union, partly in order to strengthen the social model and partly to combat the risk of social dumping.
The success of this is bound to involve a need to strengthen decision-making mechanisms and institutional structures relating to the common foreign and security policy, so as to secure better coordination between instruments of development policy and instruments of foreign policy.
I believe a liberalised market will speed up this process more than a less liberalised market.
There is now a new Commission.
There too, people are being encouraged to pay their taxes, for it will not do in the long-term for everyone just to depend on handouts from the EU and from other donors; some of the money for these activities must come from their own resources.
The effects of the AIDS pandemic mean that any progress in development matters in the sub-Saharan region is being neutralised or reversed.
In this regard, too, the Commission has not answered the question as to what definition it wishes to base its discussions on, and whether it wishes to settle foreseeable conflicts by imposing its own definition of the law on others.
I expect the Commission to exploit every available opportunity for parliamentary cooperation and to involve Parliament in doubtful cases, even given the Treaty status quo.
We do not yet have the final results of these programmes and cannot yet tell if the quantitative objectives were achieved.
As of 9 February, there will be something known as the Kosovo Transitional Council, which will comprise representatives of the political parties, the minorities and civil society, and which is intended to be a quasi interim parliament.
Mr President, there are three points I wish to address.
That is why the Intergovernmental Conference must introduce into the Treaty the principle of balanced representation of women and men in all the institutions of the European Union and in all democratic institutions and political decision-making centres throughout the Community.
We wholeheartedly support the programme as it is now laid down in a consultative document and which is also included in the programme of Vice-President, Mr Kinnock, on behalf of the Commission.
Secondly, the Commission reiterated and reiterates again its commitment to continue fulfilling its duty as guardian of the Treaties, specifically with regard to Articles 6 and 7 of the Treaty on European Union.
If the maintenance of peace and security is the basic motivation of the current courageous process of enlargement of the Union to the countries of Eastern Europe, that motivation must be present even more strongly in relations with Albania and the countries of former Yugoslavia. And that means decisively pursuing the kind of parallel enlargement to south-east Europe that the agreements we are discussing represent.
Perhaps before we criticise anybody outside this place we should take a good look at ourselves and what we do here.
It would be very beneficial, not just for Tibet and for all those who believe in peace and stability in Asia, but it would also be greatly to the credit of the Government of the People's Republic of China if they were to respond to those attempts to begin a dialogue.
In my view, the most important consequence, however, is that countries should do some careful thinking and, above all, make sure they send in their lists of Natura 2000 sites.
Ensuring that our citizens understand who does what in our various institutions is the very least we can do.
The conference on rural development held in Cork from 7 to 9 November 1996 set rural development as one of the European Union' s priorities since it is essential to preserve the integrity of our agriculture and the whole rural fabric, including infrastructure, public and private services and so on.
What, may I ask, is the Council afraid of?
We have a new Commission.
This is the most detailed and comprehensive report to date on the environmental effects of the Kosovo conflict and I recommend it to those who have not yet studied it.
This discrimination is much more serious for islands that have a regional status that can only be linked to areas of an exclusively maritime nature.
However, I must point out that preventing the recognition of maritime borders amounts to denying the existence of an area which has great potential for projects and innovation.
Further to your questions on the pre-electoral period, I can only repeat my intention that local and regional authorities should be involved together with non-governmental organisations.
This is unacceptable to my mind.
According to the experts, Parliament should no longer have the power to supervise the European Commission. This task should be taken over by a committee which will guarantee high standards in public life, and this should be a standing committee, not elected, presumably made up of another group of experts.
We had very little coverage in Ireland of the tanker that sank.
Mr President, for years, Parliament has called for specific and uniform protection under criminal law of the Union' s financial interests.
When will the same requirements be applied to animal feed and the production thereof as apply to the production of food and the monitoring thereof?
Mrs Theato probably forgot to include a European prison now that we have the FBI, the European police, in the form of OLAF.
I welcome the establishment of a Community framework for the collection and management of fisheries data which I believe is absolutely essential if we are to properly assess the level of stocks of the various species of fish.
I was promised back in September that there would be a Dutch channel by January.
The time has come for Israel to fulfil its promises of old and definitively withdraw from the occupied territories, at last recognising once and for all the authority of Palestine, whose resumed diplomatic activity will have a secure future while it is under the wise leadership of Yasser Arafat.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the tragic case of the courageous Russian journalist Andrey Babitsky illustrates once again the depth of the democratic crisis into which Russia has sunk.
Because they have a different level of education.
In terms of outlook, the document points to an upswing, to long-term prospects and the measures required to achieve this, which Karl von Wogau then proceeded to enlarge upon.
The report contains arguments that are too disparate, which do not link together smoothly, and everything thus hinges on approximations.
Both institutions identify the most important areas where this idea should be applied.
For a long time, probably a survival of our colonial heritage, our regions have fixed their attention on the European mainland, ignoring and even scorning their closest neighbours.
The Commission would be able to determine the choice of legal basis by excluding any reference to health policy and we would suddenly find ourselves up against an Article 37.
I believe we should use this legislative term to determine the limits, the positive aspects of competition.
This applies to them and us.
As far as the package in question and people with special needs are concerned, there is a directive which concentrates on combating discrimination, especially in the workplace.
But there is a common factor, a hard core, comprising unemployment, the resignation or withdrawal of public services and the disappearance of small and medium-sized enterprises, both commercial and other kinds.
It is, however, interested in official statements and actions.
The Commission, like others, has urged dialogue.
The cyanide and heavy metals in the rivers are gruesome examples of how environmental negligence may ruin the waterways for decades to come.
She might well have been abandoned by the large institutions, but we, who worked in Kosovo and Serbia for many years, are doing our utmost to campaign for her release.
The environment must be a priority area within the reunification of the European continent.
The postal services in Greece, Great Britain, the Netherlands or Belgium are, of course, all different.
Mr President, on behalf of the PSE Group, I welcome the fact that we have reached an end result in the conciliation procedure for the ALTENER II Programme.
The European Union or individual States must not take over from economic operators, but public authorities must define the rules and objectives which enable the economy to develop in a sustainable fashion.
This improvement has been achieved with fresh funds, as we said at the time, and it has been achieved while safeguarding this Parliament' s prerogatives and competences.
In my few months here, I have found it astonishing that whilst we all talk about the need to encourage businesses to grow within the EU, nearly every resolution we pass actually encourages businesses to leave.
The Commission hereby adopts this amendment and accepts it.
Together with Romano Prodi, I express my gratitude to this House and to the very large number of people who have put time and effort into giving us their constructive responses.
You tell me that you, as the Commission, have made recommendations.
Danube environmental disaster
There is a very real risk of seeing a two-headed monster emerge on this planet, with poor countries providing the labour and rich countries providing the capital.
One of the goals of those programmes is to increase the number of women in managerial positions.
Worker involvement is always, and particularly in the event of corporate restructuring, not only a basic right but a necessary precondition for the social acceptance of such operations.
That would be a similar situation.
Not only should the Commission discuss this, but also our states, our parliaments and our civil society.
In this respect, the e-Europe initiative is to be welcomed.
The European Union, in all of its aspects, must use all of its powers to resolve this and other disputes.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, I rise to speak on the subject of the World Trade Organisation, on which there is a broad convergence of views between the Commission documents and the positions of the Socialist Group. This is not the case in other areas, as has already been pointed out.
However, we note that you have said nothing to us about the fact that the role of the Security Council, as referred to at Helsinki, was contested recently.
Subject: Drafting of Charter of Fundamental Rights The general public welcomes the fact that a Charter of Fundamental Rights is to be drawn up. It is also to be hoped that it will meet the challenges of Europe in the 21st century.
I am thinking in particular of the contents of chapter 2.1 of this report, where the Commission examined in greater detail the economic definitions of regional competitiveness and attempted to analyse the extent to which this competitiveness may be supported, improved and influenced by factors which some of you - Mr Markov, just now, and Mrs Raschhofer - stressed very forcefully.
I noticed that the Commissioner did not give a direct answer to the question of whether the Danish early retirement pension scheme as a whole has been approved by the Commission, but it was indirectly apparent that the answer was that it has not been.
You may therefore be satisfied on this point, since zoning will have been completed for all the countries affected by Objective 2.
In view of changes made to the membership of the Human Rights Commission, we estimate the vote on the no-action motion will be close.
Lastly, in today' s vote on our four amendments, two have been approved and the other two rejected.
It is now quite clear that the situation in Kosovo shows that a lasting solution to the crisis there cannot be provided by military means.
I consider this to be unacceptable.
If we want there to be competition then we must establish this link between the requirements of the national economy and the pre-requisites of managerial economics.
A new wind of change must blow through Africa and new standards must be set and lived up to.
Mr President, sadly, the specific case raised by Mrs McKenna is not an isolated one.
I envisage that the board's membership will be made up from stakeholders or representatives of stakeholders.
In the EU, this is a crucial issue in the Mediterranean region and also in other European countries where we are witnessing the gradual drying of wet areas.
I am pleased that Mr Amado talked about the EDF.
Obviously, there have been arguments, we had to go to conciliation, as the rapporteur and Mr Caudron reminded us a moment ago, since at the first meeting no result was achieved, and there had to be a second meeting, despite the fact that the figures were not excessive.
It will reflect the European Union's position on its relations with the countries of the western Balkans as set out in the Cologne European Council conclusions.
In view of this positive action, there is every advantage to be gained from according the Joint Assembly a budget compatible with improving the quality of its work.
I am voting in favour of it because it is inconceivable that the European Parliament, after its excellent political debate yesterday, should not adopt a stance on this matter.
Thirdly, it is very clear that increased preparations for enlargement must be undertaken.
And as international financial activity speeds up, the risks increase.
However, having regard to my contacts with the presidents of the relevant committees, I recognise that this was not feasible.
Are these afflictions of the past, or will we find that in this relatively compact and limited area the European Union is still unable to meet its aspirations?
Therefore, if the regulation is adopted, the estimate which is due to appear in March 2000, the first estimate of the deficit for the 1999 accounting year, will be made using the new system.
I regard it as a weakness in the proposal that reporting is not mandatory in all Member States.
Now to the technical aspect. The safety factor in this type of project, and I am speaking as an engineer, has nothing to do with increasing safety levels in relation to the risk of collapse by a factor of ten or twenty.
It underlines the fact that, in order to ensure sustainable urban development, an urban policy must be implemented which does not leave out the main victims of the economic crisis, namely the unemployed, immigrants, refugees, women and the socially excluded.
Unfortunately I have to say that I am unable to support this proposed amendment because it in fact changes the substance of the outcome that we in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market resolved on unanimously, and I would like to stand by this outcome, which we arrived at together after lengthy discussions.
I would like to finish off with this observation.
One reason why I am so passionately keen on carrying through an effective reform of our external assistance programmes is that I do not want to continue to be put in the situation where whenever one puts a question like that about the gulf between rhetoric and reality, the response is 'Oh but we know you are not running things efficiently, we know that you have not spent all your commitments, we know there is some money in your back pocket' .
Finally, I want to repeat that I am convinced that LIFE will be an effective instrument in support of development and the implementation of the Community' s environmental policy.
Although the market is presented as the only rule which applies to ACP-EU relations, the European Union also plans to police immigration, as article 13 hints, in order to justify the policy of the European states against illegal immigrants.
In this respect I would also add another element, which is economic government, given the single currency, and I believe this is inescapable. This is another question on which the Commission must make progress.
A European charter of fundamental rights would be the only ray of light in this policy but, yet again, there is no provision for the people of Europe themselves to be able to address and decide on this democratically.
At the same time, the European Parliament created a new heading: 'pre-accession strategy for Mediterranean countries' (B7-04), under which two new articles were created for the pre-accession strategy for Malta and Cyprus pending the Commission' s presentation, following the Helsinki European Council, of the necessary legal bases and a review of the ceiling for heading 7 of the Financial Perspectives.
As I have said, we have both the knowledge and the resources to cope with these issues.
As you know, we members of the EDD Group, are in favour, along with others, of rural life, maintaining employment, and social cohesion in rural areas, a cohesion reinforced by high quality universal public service.
The question of consistent application: the risk of inconsistent application of competition rules must be borne in mind, but I do not believe that it should be exaggerated.
However, when it comes to what the future holds for competition, there are two issues dear to my heart.
On this specific point, we can perhaps offer Mr Bourlanges greater satisfaction.
I do not see how you could, with the views that you hold, provide any answers.
Parliament has amended the contractual text.
We need public and private investment.
Under the system proposed in these pieces of legislation, third country nationals wishing to move to the UK under the procedures described, will do so by virtue of the service provision card issued by another Member State, thereby by-passing UK border controls.
I propose that we vote on the request of the Group of the Party of European Socialists that the Commission statement on its strategic objectives should be reinstated.
The Employment and Social Affairs Committee adopted several of the amendments I put forward, concerning for example, the emphasis on access to start-up capital, how to exploit new business opportunities in cities, towns and rural areas and the criticism that under the previous initiatives there was inadequate participation by business.
Hence the transmission.
However, since Commissioner Monti is here, I would like him to take a message back to Commissioner Bolkestein telling him what the Postal Services Directive was about.
In all other areas, I believe that subsidiarity is also relevant to this discussion.
Mrs Frahm, the question that you raised is extremely important and we discussed it at great length during the last Intergovernmental Conference.
However, this should not lead us to accuse the whole merchant marine, which is an important sector of the economy, covering as it does 1/3 of transport requirements, which is why our reaction needs to be measured: strict, but correct.
Mr President, I would just like to draw your attention to something that concerns today' s agenda. We decided on Monday that the Council' s statement on the Fiftieth Anniversary of the Geneva Convention was to be postponed.
That is not the route that has been taken.
I should like, however, to know the background to this, namely whether, as High Representative, you have been toying at all with the idea of giving Austria special treatment in the context of your assignment and, if so, on whose mandate and with how much leeway.
If we are going to abide by the one extreme, that is the interests of the Member States, then we certainly have every reason to make the hurdles that have to be cleared in applying for this card relatively high.
I can hardly wait, Commissioner Byrne, to hear what you have to say to our proposals.
No single donor is in a position to address the whole spectrum of themes, ranging from macro-economic issues to the regulatory framework or from sectoral policies to a variety of new cross-cutting themes such as gender, environment, good governance and institutional reforms.
But creating parks with very limited financial resources, without any system of signs is inefficient and ineffectual.
The European Parliament has never been slow to comment on developments in Member States with which they disagree.
The French Presidency has passed an important working document to us which sets out various scenarios for addressing and resolving the issues of democratic control and judicial control of Europol.
Report (A5-0033/2000) by Mr Andersson, on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, on the communication from the Commission on a concerted strategy for modernising social protection (COM(1999) 347 - C5-0253/1999 - 1999/2182(COS))
The Romanian flag is not a flag of convenience but, nevertheless, that country has an extremely high number of incidences at inspections; more than the countries with flags of convenience.
Would a right of veto on the part of the President-in-Office of the Council, in respect of the formation of national governments, be reconcilable with the Charter of Fundamental Rights?
In some countries of the European Union a compulsory quota formula has been adopted which immediately produces a more equal presence of women.
Moreover, these are factors which create employment.
The Social Fund has certainly improved our third-level institutions, financed our post-leaving certificate programmes and put in place comprehensive schemes to help combat youth and long-term unemployment, assist early school leavers and promote higher standards of adult literacy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Portuguese Council Presidency' s account has given me the distinct impression that we are approaching this Intergovernmental Conference with well-considered ideas and a high degree of openness.
Of most importance to Parliament, as the guardian of the budget of the European Union, is how to deal with people who work within the European Union institutions.
. (PT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the Commission wishes to emphasise above all that the draft regulation being debated this evening is merely an amendment of the 1995 Convention on insolvency proceedings.
I have also paid close attention to the concerns raised by the Commissioner.
Mr President, the draft resolution we are now discussing requires, precisely as before, that the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference should have a broad agenda involving radical reforms of the institutions.
We are inclined to believe that a solid basis exists for this economic growth in the Union, now and in the coming years. It must be taken into account that we have an open, globalised and very competitive economy.
I think this is a good agreement.
With regard to financing, we must look to the future and provide the Joint Assembly with additional funds so that, for instance, we can send delegations to the ACP states to oversee electoral processes, at their invitation.
The Commission will adopt Amendments Nos - and I am now referring to the most recent numbering - 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 13, 19 and 21 for the first proposal, and 23, 28 and 32 for the second proposal, since these are really very useful clarifications and improvements.
It is an excellent contribution by Mr Swoboda and his colleagues.
There are no boundaries for Community policies.
Such policy should comprise various components.
Especially as the vulnerable architecture of this ambitious structure has been threatened.
(DA) The Danish Social Democratic Members of the European Parliament have chosen to vote in favour of the proposed resolution, but are at the same time aware of the fact that certain areas clash with the reservation Denmark has in the legal sphere - a reservation which the Danish delegation in the Group of the Party of European Socialists naturally wishes to respect.
That concludes the vote.
Do you think that, when we legislate about chemicals, we should say that we are ignoring those chemicals which are already on the market and that we are legislating only for what is to be produced in the future?
You have said some powerful and worthwhile things yourself, but take care now that you do not dodge the crucial issues, the ones where it hurts!
The war in Chechnya proves, if proof were necessary, that the duty or the right to intervene stops at the borders of the great powers.
The lack of any legal base makes it impossible to adopt measures relating to the sector.
The next item is the Commission statement on recourse to the precautionary principle.
Those rights are, by definition, universal.
Here we have from the Commission a reinforcement of a hierarchy of oppression.
They have seen their own waters plundered by others while they have had to put up their own boats and desist from fishing.
This precarious wage-earning position weakens these immigrants and their families and makes them vulnerable.
Is one free when security is no longer assured?
No one can ignore the challenge to civilisation posed by the lack of nearly one billion jobs and the need to make unprecedented efforts in terms of development and access to information.
There is much to be praised in the approach to the problem suggested by the rapporteur.
I should like to reply very briefly to the question raised by the honourable Member, since this matter is now under active consideration by the Commission.
We must first establish general rules and institutional certainties. Only then will we be able to institute actual conventions.
Mr President, first of all, I would like thank the rapporteur of the EQUAL report, Mrs Stenzel, very warmly for all the efforts she has made to master this very complex subject matter on behalf of all of us.
From all accounts, this would only serve to strengthen Haider.
It is important to find flexible mechanisms that accommodate a division of labour according to the expertise and capacity of the various donors in each developing country.
Further support for this proposal is also to be found in the second report of the so-called Five Wise Men.
But we must support our tourism!
It is the Member States, however, who will have to implement this directive, and let us beware of going into too much detail because the industrial traditions, the demolition and crushing sectors vary according to whether you are in Italy or in Finland.
Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
As it enlarges, the Union needs to be strengthened through streamlining and demarcation.
As to the second comment: regarding the non-comprehensive list of measures eligible under strand B, I wish to inform you, to confirm, that I have asked the Commission to accept the inclusion of other specific subjects, particularly in favour of small- and medium-sized businesses and of cultural heritage, in the list of schemes eligible under strand B and that therefore this list must no longer be considered as a comprehensive one.
I also wonder what kind of plans you have to induce governments to ensure that a force of 60 000 troops becomes a reality and not merely figures on a piece of paper.
Further steps to build a strong Europe will be to no avail if the European peoples perceive that there is no adequate system of democratic accountability for over-zealous officials.
However, in order for such an effort to succeed it is necessary to secure the commitment and participation of the public as a whole and to enlist the support of the less active social groups and the groups particularly affected by the economic and social crisis.
The next item is Question Time (B5-0009/2000). We will examine questions to the Commission.
The rapporteur' s phrasing was therefore too limiting.
They must, however, not be subordinated to the objectives and aspirations of a more generally negative economic and social policy, but must develop their own self-sufficient role.
This again would require measures to regulate the exportation and importation of capital; otherwise it would not be possible to focus on policies in this way.
I believe that the Italian President of the Council mentioned this point at your meeting on 24 February.
These storms were an unprecedented ecological disaster for our forests.
In this regard, we should bear in mind that the ERDF also contributes to promoting sustainable rural development and to creating sustainable employment in rural areas.
Mr President, "The EU' s development cooperation leaves a great deal to be desired" .
I would like to make three brief points.
This is my first additional question.
The EU' s own regulations too may therefore need to be analysed.
(IT) I shall now quickly turn, Mr President, to Mr Rapkay' s report, and I would like to thank him sincerely for the quality of his work and for the broad endorsement given to the Commission' s XXVIIIth Annual Report on Competition Policy.
Special attention is also required for the costs of the means of production.
Therefore, since the qualified majority will be extended, there will also be more codecision with Parliament.
Is the Council aware of the social problems caused by the export of food by the EU to developing countries at prices below the cost of production?
We must make a rapid, strong and united response.
The Council was not prepared in the case of this particular programme to accommodate Parliament to the tune of even a single euro!
With reference to the IGC, as you know, under the Helsinki decisions the Portuguese Presidency was given the specific entitlement to add to the agenda of the IGC during the course of the IGC.
Mr President, today' s debate is extremely important because the principle of competition has probably been the cornerstone of the internal market.
We cannot agree to this, since such a sidelong shift towards a Europe of the Judges is detrimental to the proper exercise of democracy in our States.
I would like to ask him how vigorous the Commission will be in this information campaign?
I do not like foreign ministers who say nothing - whether they are German and from my party, whether they are French from the broad left or whether they are Italians from any party!
A number of cases have been highlighted, including the child soldier issue in Sudan, where many children have been abducted from neighbouring states.
While the negotiations on the final peace settlement have begun, I think it is important to keep the two processes apart.
Mr President, we certainly must concede that, on balance, this text is full of good intentions, but we did not vote in favour of it in committee, nor shall we do so in plenary. We had two reasons for this, both of which gave rise to amendments which I should like to explain here very briefly.
We will now interrupt the debate on the joint statement concerning the next session of the UN Human Rights Commission and proceed to the vote.
So, Madam President, maybe we should consider taking some action if we want our sorrow and our rejection of terrorism to have any actual significance.
And so the debates taking place today focus on two major issues: firstly, comitology, an ongoing debate within this House, but Parliament wished to implement policies settled rather by management committees or advisory committees which give the Commission some flexibility and which do not give the Council too much scope to obstruct and have their intergovernmental philosophy prevail over the Community philosophy which we are here to stand up for within the European Parliament.
I would like to state that this transfer will not increase the pressure of fishing on anchovy stocks overall, over the whole Community fishing area.
The debates we are having these days, on a certain European country' s government, for example, show, do they not, that we must place the spiritual, moral, constitutional, community and common welfare-orientated leanings of the European Union on a firm footing, and that legally binding fundamental rights must also be incorporated into the Treaty for the same reason, as this will be a crucial stabilising factor.
Perhaps this is a little worrying.
Those having to deal with these risks should therefore meet stringent requirements.
An efficient procedure for issuing cards implies that companies which provide cross-border services can also exercise their rights in concrete terms on the basis of the internal market.
Secondly, I agree with what has already been said on the issue of the islands and I would also like to bring the outermost regions to your attention.
It is extraordinary what decisions we took in Sintra concerning 2004, 2005, 2006.
This is one area in which I believe the Commission can be a very great friend to Wales.
I hope the approach that we are following both demonstrates practicality and the imperative of giving this the attention which it deserves.
We urgently require a directive if we are to reduce these risks. The 15 clearly do not suffice.
In this respect, I agree with the previous speakers about the need to have a comprehensive policy which includes not only military elements but also civilian, diplomatic, humanitarian and police elements, to which Mr Solana referred.
I need to know about this allocation, however, and this is why I said that I could not answer today.
They say that if you want something done, it is best to do it yourself and so the users of the sea, the fishermen, must be very attentive.
It is a report that has been proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Control and it is an own-initiative report.
I believe that this first half of the year, in which we have a Commissioner from Portugal and Portuguese Presidency of the Council, provides an excellent opportunity to give an initial spur to this shared aspiration.
The Member States can devise their own systems in the social sphere, each within the framework of its economic resources and political preferences.
The first is concerned with conflict resolution.
The Community' s institutions are obliged to work towards overcoming these border scars, which contradict the spirit of European unity.
I would oppose this directive on the basis that it is too prescriptive, it ignores what is actually going on in the car recycling market at the moment and it sets in stone methods which are not necessarily the best environmentally, and are certainly very damaging economically.
Mr President, I must firstly thank the rapporteur, Mr Schmidt, my colleague, Mr Goebbels, and Mrs Villiers and Mrs Lulling from my Group. Despite their differing opinions on some points, they have consistently worked in an extremely constructive manner.
I refer to item 11 on the order of business.
Consequently, we have to build schools, hospitals, and the whole infrastructure for the same people in the same country many times over.
. (DA) The Danish Social Democrats have today voted against the report on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference.
This suggests that something must be done, failing which tensions will be aggravated and conflicts jeopardising international peace and stability will arise or worsen.
Our aim must therefore be to make this reactivation of the economy long-lasting with strong growth and job creation.
Lists of this kind would not have clear legal status and do not fit in with the procedures for adopting the list of prioritised substances.
It must be rid of some of its more outdated elements; and it must deal with the legitimate concerns of the general public who cannot understand why European civil servants should be paid an expatriation allowance indefinitely in a Europe of open borders, or pay a level of taxes that is often well below that of Member States.
You may answer the question.
Actually, I hear less and less about this.
In the meantime, I should like to observe a minute' s silence, as a number of Members have requested, on behalf of all the victims concerned, particularly those of the terrible storms, in the various countries of the European Union.
We were told that a bus would meet us there on arrival.
Nevertheless, I have said that I understand the arguments that people have been putting forward here and the Commission will endeavour to take account of these aspirations, but since this is all about Agenda 2000 and the Financial Perspective, we will not be able to do this without amending this Financial Perspective.
We must bear in mind that national currencies could continue to change hands for another 20 years!
Mr President, we - myself included - support the report by Mrs Lienemann, the targets it sets and the directive under discussion.
There can be no democracy without freedom of information and without free and informed public opinion.
It is therefore hardly surprising that I and Mr Böge are talking about it and that Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has just mentioned it in his report.
Society gains nothing from these massive transfers of public funds to private business.
I would cite, by way of example, the issue of job creation schemes, savings banks and regional banks, and Gütesiegel.
On the basis of this evidence, some of which has already been lodged with the Tribunal, NATO is accused of 'serious violations of international humanitarian law' and 'wilful murder'.
My position on this is clear.
Unfortunately, and as everyone recognised during the military action in Kosovo, there were civilian sectors, and in particular infrastructural sectors directly affecting the general public, and even inhabited areas, which were directly affected by NATO air attacks.
The report shows that, in general, they are a long way behind EU countries, especially in terms of GDP per capita.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think that first we should all congratulate ourselves on the procedure that has been adopted and which will lead us, after each of our respective political groups has rallied together and expressed its feelings, finally to produce a joint resolution.
I myself expressed my concern at the meeting of Ministers for regional and urban planning, a concern to which I devote myself, that in the DOCUPs and the CSFs in the planning which we are currently starting to negotiate, my concern, as I said, that, apart from the URBAN initiative, urban issues should be addressed in all the Objective 1 and Objective 2 programmes, and I believe I can express both our awareness of such issues and also our commitment to include them, beyond the scope of URBAN, in all structural fund programming.
There are certain weaknesses, the greatest of which, in my opinion, is that not enough consideration is being given to the situation of small businesses; after all, the car industry is more than just large companies.
It should not be dramatised into something more than that.
This means that any strategy for rural development must be based on agriculture' s internal potential while at the same time developing as many other activities as possible in order to prevent the desertification of the rural world.
Firstly, I should like to mention some of my most important arguments.
The Union must not take on a whole range of new tasks without the basic foundation for a successful European economy being in place.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, the fact that we are formulating new programmes does not mean that we should neglect those older programmes which are at implementation stage.
But I can report that in the Moluccas, an area just north of Timor, the violence is still not under control.
I hope it does not take another 25 years before we finally achieve that too.
In the debate about coordination of social policy in the EU, we often use the expression social convergence.
I suggest to you that the directive is bad in another respect, which has not been examined well enough in this debate. It is like so much European legislation.
I am very pleased with the level of support offered by your House to the Commission in establishing these guidelines, which have been submitted to the Member States for information when establishing their own programmes.
That is the job of the European Strategy for Employment and the Social Fund, which have huge sums of money and exceptionally large resources at their disposal, especially for countries like Greece.
I should also like to refer to the darker side of tourism, the tourism exported from the Member States of the European Union. I am referring to sex tourism.
The events of last week - which originated outside the Conference of Presidents, that Conference being used simply to corroborate and ratify decisions taken elsewhere - present us with a dilemma. Either the Commission is not ready to present this programme, in which case it should clarify it.
Firstly, when I came to this Parliament many years ago I was told that if you had a difficult job you gave it to a Liberal.
It is only such action which will discourage this practice in the future.
My group's sympathy goes out to the people of Brittany who have seen their area despoiled by this disaster, just as my group's sympathy went out to the people of West Wales and to the Shetland Islands on previous occasions.
I therefore ask the Commission to stop doing so and, on the contrary, to help those who make their living from the sea to proceed to new investments, which they urgently need.
As a result, agricultural production would move to other countries outside the EU, with consequent high socio-economic and employment costs.
Sustainable urban development - rural development - EQUAL initiative
It is also designed to give greater momentum to the process with earlier and more frequent reporting back by the Commission on the progress of the data collection programme as a whole.
The first problem is that concerning the downward adjustment of social security, which, we hope, will be replaced by high-level convergence.
Both the Commission and the Portuguese Presidency of the Council state, in their respective working programmes, that they wish to give coherence to those policies which have a very important impact on the developing countries, but they do not specify concrete measures aimed at introducing this coherence.
This calls into question the agreement which Parliament reached, with great difficulty, with the Council in December, according to which, when the Commission presents a multiannual programme for reconstruction, the financial perspectives would be reviewed where necessary.
Between 1998 and 1999, loyalists assaulted and shot 123 people, while republicans assaulted and shot 93 people.
Mr Purvis, as this discussion of salaries in the European Parliament does not relate exclusively to your country and even affects my country, I have a precise idea of what the salaries of the Members of the European Parliament are worth.
But they might accidentally do great damage.
There is currently little financial incentive for this when the insurance market picks up the tab.
National states would thus become the secular arm of the Commission regarding observance of the application of rules which they do not control.
Mr President, yesterday' s Minutes will naturally indicate interventions referring to the so-called 'Strasbourg Declaration" which intends to implicate the European Parliament in certain considerations which would literally lead to the conclusion that I am a Nazi.
I am surprised it has even been made, because we came to an agreement following an exchange in the Conference of Presidents.
The statistics quoted on child mortality speak for themselves and are wholly unacceptable.
This is the reason for the request which we are putting forward again to establish a management unit for structural assistance in the Member States, which would coordinate the implementation and administration of aid.
I would first of all like to say that I am very pleased with the contributions made by Mr Patten and the Minister, and I welcome the fact that both China and Cuba are on the agenda.
We have had a constructive discussion in the Committee.
When, in 1994, over five years ago that is, I joined the Legal Affairs Committee in this Parliament, I became rapporteur for the environmental liability dossier.
The first is that greater resources should be given to judges of first instance, and that they should be given one more référendaire.
Secondly, the Swedish Government is being consulted all the way.
I would emphasise that this is going to be extremely important for our future, for Europe' s economy, and, above all, for the protection of our wealth and technological development in Europe in general.
Besides, Commissioner, is so-called humanitarian military intervention justified by the present picture of human destruction in Kosovo?
Before we decide whether to liberalise postal services, there should be much more discussion about how we can make the present services more flexible and more customer-friendly, and how funding systems can facilitate the investments called for by the new technology.
The Commission recently observed renewed interest in a global tax, such as the Tobin tax, as a means of achieving socially responsible globalisation, so to speak.
I repeat, a "serious and persistent breach" is the condition necessary for the Commission to be able to propose to the Council that measures be adopted against a Member State.
European Union Member States together contributed another EUR 860 million during that crucial period.
There is no European anti-fraud legislation in force because the Member States, as was stated before, have not ratified the treaty texts submitted.
Public monopolies must be replaced by competitive structures.
It is obvious that some presidents do not look at the hands, so to speak, but go straight to the electronic voting system.
The new head of the audit unit will be in place by 1 May and with that and an accumulation of other assurances I think that we can be as certain as human beings can be that there will be a totally secure system even during the period of transition.
There will be friendship, calm, openness but also a certain strictness in the enlargement process.
These include, amongst others, the incorporation into the Treaty of security and defence issues, which have made much progress recently, but which must be incorporated into the Treaty.
When will you make it compulsory?
We are recovering from a crisis. However, I believe that, in the future, it would be appropriate for the investiture of the next Commission to coincide with the presentation of a legislative programme.
However, it is normal practice that the report on the work of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly is put before Members of this Parliament and I have the pleasant task of doing that tonight.
I will now describe, very briefly, the five areas where the most important changes may occur.
Whose turn is next?
Yet a lack of regulation is also inappropriate and may lead to abuses in the telecommunications field. In fact, we are aware that these are already happening widely.
What of course characterises the present draft framework decision is the fact that the Member States' obligations are laid down in detail. There is no freedom of choice regarding methods and implementation.
By defining a sector reserved for public postal services, on the basis of weight and price limits, the postal service directive would clear the way for controlled liberalisation in phases.
We should be aware, for example, that Shell and British Petroleum refused to use the Erika to transport their oil.
We do not think that the new Commission, under any circumstances, could incur liability for the past.
My second question is of a more technical nature, but it is important for the responsibilities of the Atlantic Alliance and the Western European Union to be transferred to the European Union as harmoniously as possible.
The major challenge is, therefore, to create a modern and efficient administration without compromising on supervision and the rule of law.
Can you say whether you will indeed raise this point as well?
The recommendations that have been made will not improve the status of culture in Europe, on the contrary.
He also repudiates the basic forms of diplomatic politeness.
For all of the high-minded talk about conservation, the reality is that the quota system is directly leading to an environmental disaster.
I am confident that Commissioner Barnier and the President of the European Commission will duly consider Parliament' s position on the matter, in accordance with the Code of Conduct.
It would be marvellous if this report were to give the green light to result-oriented spending of this kind, with all the work organised on that basis.
Parliament has tried to take account of this in its own recommendation.
It happened to sink there, and Brittany, where I come from, should not apologise for the fact that geography has made it a peninsula, and the result is that it is often forced to clear up after shipwrecks.
It would be helpful if you could give a positive answer to my questions on the Financial Perspective up until 2004 and on heading B7, or if you could at least confirm that the Portuguese Council Presidency intends to make efforts of this kind to make good the aforementioned lack of coherence, which is something the Commissioner will also seek to achieve on the part of the Commission.
The European Parliament is aware of the limited resources and the need for responsible fisheries.
A career with the European institutions must become more attractive.
A number of these amendments have come back from the Committee reading, and these I shall reject.
In a debate, there is always the danger that we will repeat much of what has already been said.
Parliament has traditionally made a major contribution to strengthening environmental legislation in Europe.
I would just make two points about the situation in Kosovo which we are addressing as enthusiastically as we can along WHO lines.
This brings me onto the point that in future we are going to have to concern ourselves much more intensively with this issue in general terms, that is to say, not just with this specific project but with overall developments in south-east Europe, and with the aid delivered there.
Subject: Opportunities of the disabled to take advantage of freedom of movement within the EU Under Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty, it should be possible for all EU citizens to take advantage of freedom of movement within the Union.
But at the end of the day one has got to strike the balance between those who are dependent on their life and their livelihood from the sea and those who are making the laws which govern who may or may not fish and where, when and how they may fish in any particular waters within the European Union.
All these costs added together would be horrendous and would have repercussions for the agricultural sector.
In the Overseas Countries and Territories Framework the accumulation of some of these trade aspects represents a complicated problem, but it may be that what we are talking about here has more to do with promoting the interests of some European companies than with generating income in the Caribbean. In any case, this is a matter which we are currently dealing with.
I shall leave to Neil Kinnock the task of explaining the details of the reform, but I would first like to thank him for the intelligence, enthusiasm and energy he has brought to this exercise.
That is already secured by means of the various national legal systems.
Moreover, I have taken note of the request made by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs to codify the entire text, once it has been approved - Amendment No 7 of the first proposal and Amendment No 22 of the second proposal.
As the draftsperson for the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, I also wish to place on record my thanks to the secretariat of both the Legal Affairs Committee and the Economic Affairs Committee for their cooperation on this matter.
The text of Article 18 is ambiguous: he is restricting the activities of the intelligence services but seems to allow interception activities by a Member State in another Member State without the latter' s prior authorisation.
The draftsman of the opinion held the view that there was no need for a legal foundation for tourism in the Treaty.
But on the whole, this only serves to prevent abuses; framework conditions alone cannot achieve socially legitimate goals in isolation.
Mr President, the majority of the borders, which have divided Europe for centuries, were artificially created, separating single geographic spaces and creating serious disparities in terms of balanced development and cohesion.
Everything has become more and more complex.
What did Mr Katiforis actually propose and what has been taken out of the report?
Question No 6 by (H-0122/00):
Mr President, the report presented to us today seeks to complete the free movement of financial investments in Europe, including the most sophisticated forms of investment.
Yet they reckoned without the salutary reaction of the nobodies, both individuals and States. This reaction was more organised than previously, due in France particularly to the magnificent ATTAC network which is fighting with increasing support to limit free trade in general and to establish taxation of international financial transactions in particular.
We must clearly set firm objectives.
It is also a timely discussion - as Mr Pronk said just a moment ago - at a time when preparations are in full swing for the Lisbon Summit, which intends to find out how we can put economic growth, employment and social cohesion on the agenda in Europe via the Information Society.
Now to the form. On the subject of the role of the guidelines, Mrs Schroedter, you pointed out that this is the context in which guidelines on a number of European objectives, often very precise ones, should be provided.
On the question of coordinating the various measures, since early 1998, the Commission, followed now by OLAF, has been working with experts on the subject from the Member States, the European Central Bank and Europol on means of effectively combating counterfeiting of the euro in advance.
We must urgently amend our legislation and close the loopholes which keep allowing these terrible disasters to happen.
Today, something has changed, at least in terms of mechanisms, and especially as regards monitoring, but we are still not satisfied, particularly if debates are held in competent fora that go as far as to discuss a European Public Prosecutor, crimes, fraud, the misappropriation of funds and the disclosure of confidential information pertaining to one' s office at European level.
If this happens, the United States' Government and the British Government have given it to be understood that they will resort to military intervention.
(The sitting was closed at 8.25 p.m.)
The credibility of the efforts we make here in Parliament to employ our finances properly stands and falls with the efforts we make to deal with such scandals and prevent them from arising in the future.
On the other hand, districts which have not been affected by the storms will also suffer, as the National Forestry Office has decided to freeze cuts in forestation for four years.
I also think we should perhaps consider setting up an interinstitutional or EU body in charge of coordinating the cooperation work.
We also take good note of the fact that the Member who has asked the question has applauded the Commissioner' s answer.
Madam President, I too would like to warmly thank the rapporteur, Graa Moura, and Commissioner Reding, for their contribution to the creation of this programme.
Parliament is no more able than anyone else to spend money that it has not got, at least not until we have a printing machine installed in the basement that we can use to print euro notes!
It has been extolled and celebrated as a huge achievement and I am all for it; we need a basis for a scoreboard.
The report emphasises the social dimension of European cooperation, which is something to be welcomed.
As with all such disasters it is the long-term consequences that are the most pernicious.
Yesterday, as some of you have noted, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs referred to the improvement in the economic situation in Europe.
So many things set us apart from Mr Haider - as we have often written - including his claim to the completely Italian Alto Adige region.
The Commission is proposing that we should conclude an agreement jointly with the Council.
This is my first point regarding the policy.
I think that is a very good idea indeed, and I fully subscribe to it.
We must not bow down before the agricultural or chemical industry lobbyists; on the contrary, we must use our vote to promote and express that fact that we want the polluter pays principle and, hence, cost-covering prices.
But there is nothing in the statement which indicates that the Commission intends to take any steps to deal with the issue of cultural diversity.
Proposal for a joint resolution on coherence of different Union policies
We are all acting as if this is not really happening, but we all know that it is.
But I do not believe that the right approach is to try to isolate Cuba.
It would be preferable if national governments channelled this money directly to their local governments without a European detour.
Europe will also be able to achieve a leading position in the industry that supplies equipment needed for the exploitation of renewable energy.
There is no question of this influencing the administration of justice in the Member States.
This is not the way to fight extremism.
Our food programmes are directly related to structural reforms in agriculture as well as poverty alleviation.
It seems to me that the only people in Malta that want this are the political class, and I shall be keeping my fingers crossed that once again the Maltese people are the winners.
Syrian economic development will need assistance for the transition from a wartime to a peace economy.
In reply to your second point on the Court of Justice, we have not yet established our position on the Court of Justice because we were waiting for the Dur report which was published a few days ago.
This has already been made clear a number times in this debate.
I once heard a Christian Democratic politician make the following comment in a Dutch village: "The postal service belongs to us all; taking it away from us is tantamount to theft" .
Can I say to her that the mechanisms that we are going to introduce of strategic planning and programming facilitated by activity-based management may sound to be immensely dry and completely bereft of any idealism.
I note in particular that when you talk about the international law with which the text would not be compatible, you are referring in fact to the rules of the World Trade Organisation.
I therefore believe that a European civil protection force, real civil relief blue helmets, who would go to areas in difficulty within the Union, as we currently have no emergency procedure, but also outside the Union if needs be, in Venezuela or anywhere else, is something that we should hope to see. I would like to tell Commissioner Barnier that in me he has an active ally for this idea which strikes me as noble and truly European in spirit.
Yet we as politicians knew that there was a groundswell of support for continuing this initiative into the year 2000.
The European Commission and the Council must, at last, assume all the necessary responsibilities, both with regard to the adoption of a common position on the information and consultation of workers and with regard to Community and national aid, which must only be granted to companies who undertake to establish long-term agreements to protect jobs.
Peace in the Middle East concerns us all, however.
Such dialogue between the national parliaments, the European Parliament and ourselves is extremely important.
Mr President, the American leaders do not seem to have learnt a great deal from the criticism of how they treated the Indians and other indigenous peoples.
However, it must be "europeanised" taking into account the principle of subsidiarity.
In my opinion the committee drafting the report has not taken sufficient account of this, so on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I would draw the Commission' s attention to this issue.
Turning briefly to Angola, we had again a number of knowledgeable speeches, especially from Mr Soares, with his unrivalled knowledge of the subject.
Mr President, you said during last week' s information session that it was your view that any future EU food agency should not be located on the periphery, but you did not mention what that periphery was.
I was sorry to hear what was said in the previous explanation of vote, since I believe that, in essence, the report aims to provide much better protection for the elderly, despite the fact that, as we all know, the governments of the 15 Member States would like to reduce pensions to the minimum.
Lastly on transition, I share the reservations of Mrs Theato over so-called "soft law" .
We hope these will be carried because they are important in the way that they will impact on future reform.
Mr President, firstly I would like to compliment the Commission on its approach.
I hope that this discussion will, in the first place, concentrate upon Kosovo so that the desperate situation there might be remedied.
.
Every statutory article should, of course, not just be judged on its regularity, but also on the importance of its contents.
This is not the case!
The whole credibility of Europe is at stake today, before we invite the recent and still vulnerable democracies of the former eastern bloc to join us tomorrow.
Are we talking about the nature of the works required to provide water services?
We need to look at the people who vote for these parties, and understand why this situation arises.
We should therefore very carefully monitor pollution from industrial activity, but also from domestic activity.
It is happening with Buddhism in Tibet.
For me there is no question of allowing them to develop and to flourish without fighting with all our might.
The lowest subsidy would win the franchise for a certain period of time.
Furthermore, and this will perhaps soon be the fifth area of incoherence, we demand respect for biodiversity, for example so that everyone can produce from their own seeds and preserve the richness of nature; but at the same time, and this was apparent during recent negotiations, we force ACP countries to sign TRIPS agreements.
If we are not able to achieve that then we will have tremendous trouble in the future.
I am sceptical about the detailed regulations that might result from the Commission' s having to deal with the scope and quality of child care and care of the elderly, and I am sceptical about the value of a common poverty threshold.
If need be, we must use all possible means to force the situation.
Comments are made here and there to the effect that one group should get more funding than another.
The answer is quite simply because the projects currently being submitted are still too often damaging to the environment due to the way they are submitted.
So, I say to the Council of Ministers: Keep this programme genuinely under review.
You will understand, Mr President-in-Office, that there was a point to my question, because the Council is a political body of the European Union and the citizens of Europe, men and women, want to know how it views the democratic and social model of Europe in the twenty-first century.
I expect that Parliament's contribution to the debate on the authority can be as incisive and constructive.
That country and its politicians - no doubt with some differences here and there - have always done very good work, and we should recognise that.
On the other hand, it is crucial that there are precise indications and sufficient funds in areas such as creating decent jobs - with rights - effectively promoting equality in law and opportunity, and supporting the social economy and solidarity. There must also be support for rural development, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for improving the quality of life of urban populations in deprived areas, specifically in the field of social housing, with a view to achieving sustainable urban development.
In that case, the tax could lead to a net loss of total economic prosperity.
Many of the amendments which Parliament has submitted show that reconciliation will be necessary.
There is agreement on the principle that marginalisation, discrimination and inequalities on the labour market should be reduced.
The developing countries, too, expect the European Union to bring about ratification swiftly because this would give a strong signal worldwide.
Is there a member who wishes to speak on behalf of this Group to propose this?
The rapporteur has pointed out to the House that in its common position the Council has accepted six of Parliament's ten amendments put forward at first reading and that the substance of Parliament's other amendments has been retained.
As stated in Agenda 2000 - and I quote: "Enlargement should not mean importing border conflicts".
For example, I would not refer to the government of Nicosia.
I am certain, therefore, that an island such as Malta, with its population of 340 000 cannot accommodate the rigidities of the economic and legal structures of the mainland which has a population a thousand times greater.
But I strongly suggest there are a number of factors of which the Member States ought to take proper account.
Mr President, over the years, the following situation has arisen: one subject has developed into a subject of many facets.
The harbour construction project is receiving support from the Structural Funds and chiefly involves dredging the river Boyne Estuary and depositing the mud on the mudflats at Stegrennan.
At this stage, there can be no delay in the process of reforming the Commission, demanded by our citizens.
Even so, I think the positions are quite clear and they shall be entered in the Minutes.
What are the conditions for this recognition?
It will become totally invisible!
So much for the quality.
Indeed, the comments which have just been made express a proactive attitude and a concern which match his own: the Portuguese Presidency cannot be just an interim presidency.
Collaboration with the countries of origin on this issue is vital. In this respect, the action plans approved by the High Level Group and the Tampere European Council must be allocated a budget.
I call upon you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this report, which the Committee on Budgetary Control adopted with a large majority.
Whether or not we will agree with the work carried out by this Commission and the President of the Commission, only time will tell.
It was slow in coming but well worth waiting for.
If the Angolan Government continues to refuse to cooperate, measures will need to be taken.
On the contrary, as many in this House understand, I am setting out these considerations because we want to meet our responsibilities and meet them with full effectiveness and full accountability.
I shall point out that a directive on the approximation of Member State legislation on the transport of dangerous goods by road came into force on 1 January 1997.
Finally, Mr President, as a member of the Bureau until six months ago, I would urge you to address this issue in the Bureau so that we here in Parliament at least comply, in our own administration, with the demands we are making on others.
Mr President, I have a few very brief comments.
The EUR 1 million which has so far been made available is completely inadequate in view of the needs which have been assessed by the Mozambican Government at 65 million dollars.
National competition authorities were able to apply Articles 81(1) and 82 for some time.
We know full well that pollution and restoration costs run into billions.
May I particularly draw attention to one of the implications of enlargement in respect of this Parliament.
When Mr Dalmau, the Cuban Junior Minister for Foreign Affairs addressed the Assembly, he did not hesitate to let his feelings be known.
Has the Greek Government introduced any changes so as to extend the scope of partnership arrangements to the local authorities and other representative bodies?
It is, after all, they who have most knowledge about the regions which fall under their remit.
The European Union has condemned the use of anti-personnel landmines and we are supporting de-mining operations through an international NGO.
These assemblies would report back to the Joint Assembly.
In accordance with the principle of competition, the legislation has implemented Articles 85 to 94, competition policy in the strict sense, and the revision of all state aid and tax provisions which may affect competition.
This, unfortunately, is not the case in Ireland.
That is the key issue, delivery of these proposals.
It is this absence of management of the European economy which is responsible, my dear Mr von Wogau, for the fall of the euro.
If we allow what is happening today in Kosovo to continue - border provocation, Serbian provocation, Albanian provocation, etc. we are heading for war.
Mozambique is surely an excellent current example of how intervention may be required in terms of military logistics, not for military purposes, but with strictly humanitarian ends.
Finally, in conclusion, I would like to express my regret at the low level of funding allocated to strand C, for interregional cooperation, even though the added value this offers the Community is undeniable.
However, I do wish to mention - since you have asked me to do so - that, as far as I am concerned, this partnership - and I spent long enough as a regional administrator within my own country to be able to say this most sincerely - is a tool, one used to involve local brainpower, be it in the public sector, in the form of elected representatives, the social and educational sectors, associations, or in the private sector; a decentralised partnership, and let me mention in this connection, in response to Mrs Angelilli, the territorial pacts, which are one of the means available to this decentralised partnership.
But the statistics prove it: the positive action, even the quotas, - if they are not applied blindly, without distinction - have increased the number of women in the decision-making process.
One could do so once or twice, but I feel that the UN donors should contribute to this as well, for there is a very large hole, as yet unfilled, that we are unable to fill.
In France, both in the National Assembly and in the Senate, when this was being ratified, many members of the French parliament were reassured to hear that, in any case, the Council would remain free to choose and could retain unanimous decision-making.
I am horrified that both Members of Parliament and the public have been misled by false arguments in this difficult and sometimes highly technical matter.
The most important amendment to the Commission proposal is the inclusion, as recommended by the rapporteur, of genetically-modified organisms in the directive on additives, taking the compromise negotiated between Parliament and the Commission on authorisation for GMOs outside the scope of the release directive as the starting point.
Mr President, Commissioner, this morning on French national radio, I heard that liberalisation of the French postal service was now only a matter of days or hours away and that it was irreparable, like the developments with our neighbours in Sweden, the Netherlands and Germany.
This is a starting point and we have five years to succeed, provided that the political will exists and is expressed with sufficient force and clarity.
(The sitting was closed at 8.14 p.m.)
For many years the Greens were calling for the BSE issue to be addressed.
I am not forgetting, and we cannot forget, that 80% of the citizens of Europe today live in towns and that is why this URBAN instrument is extremely important.
These events have caused us great pain and shame and have awoken our fears given the extreme racism, xenophobia and intolerance demonstrated.
Our concern and our ambition, therefore, on a large number of subjects, is to be on the same wavelength and to carry these negotiations forward successfully.
Madam President, there has recently been much talk of the importance of enlarging the European Union.
Of course, it is particularly important for people with special needs to have access to means of transport, services and all types of installation if they are to exercise their right to freedom of movement.
The low level of releases of Palestinian prisoners and the fact that the Israeli Government appears to intend halting implementation of building permits already granted, as well as not approving new ones, pose further obstacles.
We also have to demand that our partners in cooperation be committed to projects and fulfil their share of the agreement.
I am not, personally, a blinkered militant in favour of monopolies, whether public or private, but when I see the results achieved by private firms in this sector I am reinforced in my position as a defender of public service!
Within the social dimension we will be looking for a deepening of the internal market with a social aspect.
The Central Bank must be placed under political control so that the direction to be taken by monetary policy may be governed by political objectives such as high employment and prosperity. Public control of the Central Bank must be improved if this is to become possible.
I do not think that reconciliation is possible after such murderous tragedies, unless those responsible for starting them are brought to trial and sentenced.
In my view, most definitely not unless such rejection of the scientific arguments were soundly based, rationally argued and fully justified.
Resumption of the session
Mr Gorostiaga Atxalandabaso, I understand you have a point of order.
I therefore believe that the issue is totally cleared up.
Could Mr Kinnock say what timeframe he is expecting the Council and Parliament to come up with for these priorities?
There is an agreement to double this number, but I understand that, so far, not a single new person has arrived.
It could hardly have been made more abundantly clear, what we are concerned with here.
That proposal will fully take into account the need to ensure universality of service, the development of efficient safeguards for consumers, and the creation of a climate which would be favourable to new jobs - not to fewer jobs - in the framework of a progressive, gradual evolution.
A resilient and practical interinstitutional agreement will, therefore, be a prerequisite for the efficient operation of activity-based management.
It is likely that postal liberalisation will lead to greater cost differences between countries, which will no doubt have implications for competition, which will not only affect the cost of the postal service but also the establishment of installations.
At its recent meeting in November 1998, the ICCAT standing committee on research and statistics was asked to perform a new assessment of the western Atlantic and eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean bluefin tuna populations.
It will not be us who refuse these new resources. You should ask the Council.
By commenting and making our views known we are not preventing any party in Austria from forming a coalition government.
The victim of this exchange is said to be the 35-year-old war correspondent of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Andrey Babitsky.
There are twin problems that still remain for many regions in Europe: firstly, the lack of adequate infrastructure in terms of road, water treatment facilities and related transport networks; secondly, the need to put in place initiatives to combat youth and long-term unemployment, which is a constant social problem in many urban and rural parts of Europe.
We have seen the gap between rich and poor widen.
Finally, I also want to thank this Chamber for being so good as to listen to these words at this late hour.
Members of this House will have differing views, even within the same political parties, depending on (a) which country they come from or (b) which committee they sit on.
If we are to strengthen the European Union' s role in international development policies, we believe that it is basically necessary to take three kinds of action.
Thank you, Commissioner Schreyer.
According to the action plan to combat organised crime adopted by the Council in April 1997, the work on the draft MLA Convention should have been finalised before the end of 1997.
Even if this proposal for a European Parliament and Council regulation to prevent and combat certain TSE needs to be made more accurate and more effective, especially as regards detecting and fighting scrapie, it is still a notable improvement.
Mr President, I beg your pardon, but the French interpreter made a small error, on the most sensitive word in the debate, during the translation of what Mr Alyssandrakis just said.
I can partly accept Amendment No 11.
This was, after all, one of the causes of the downfall of the last Commission.
We could mention, my Belgian friends, Belgium and the Dutroux case, the dozens upon dozens of children kidnapped, tortured, raped and murdered by leading personalities in this country, where inquiries are bogged down, making no headway.
They will be aware that they have heard from the authority before under other circumstances and hopefully will have some bedrock of confidence already built up in the pronouncements from the authority.
As for the enforcement of the links between competition policy and social policy, let me remind you that there is a provision in the merger regulation which enables workers' representatives to be heard by the Commission in the framework of the relevant procedure.
The fact that the Group of the Party of European Socialists is very much in agreement with your report is clearly demonstrated by the fact that only one amendment has been presented during this procedure.
(Parliament rejected the request) President.
Today, scientific studies show that the anchovy population in the Bay of Biscay is in danger of extinction, and now there will be measures to restrict the amount of anchovy which can be fished in that Bay.
The second proposed change would permit a phased withdrawal of fish from affected farms, working to a plan based on the severity of the problem in any particular farm.
At the same time, we are aware that this is a massive programme and that, during the overhaul in the next couple of years, it will be necessary to keep the actual results coming in, as before.
This led to strikes and smear campaigns by intransigent trade unions, whereupon the proposals were abandoned and replaced by a wishy-washy compromise.
A5-0078/1999 by Mr Rapkay, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the European Commission' s XXVIIIth Report on Competition Policy 1998 [SEK(1999) 743 - C5-0121/1999 - 1999/2124(COS)];
Turkey's nuclear plans B which ignore the risks to the population and ecosystems of Turkey and the surrounding region B prompt the suspicion that there are underlying plans previously determined by Turkey's political and military leaders to acquire nuclear technology enabling them to build nuclear weapons, as evidenced by their attempts to buy reactors of Canadian origin of the type acquired by India and Pakistan.
I support the principle of liberalising and the right of everybody to compete and I recognise the benefits that common regulation and liberalisation has brought over the years.
It is not rather ambitious to ensure peace, democracy and human rights in the whole of Europe, no less?
We need to break away from planned economy subsidies in favour of a liberal policy which fosters personal responsibility.
It is indeed a good idea to wish to prevent the depletion of fragile resources, but what is the point if Europe restricts its catches and world catches increase?
By adopting such a provision in the partnership agreement, the EU and the ACP States are together sending a clear and positive signal that will doubtless be appreciated by European taxpayers and hopefully also by European investors.
Mr President, the Director-General of the DG for Development has said that to produce a report on coherence of EU policies with development policies, before this spring' s paper on development policy itself, is like putting the cart before the horse.
This is the basic issue underlying the present situation as a whole.
We should alter the staff regulations and disciplinary procedures and, especially, change our practice.
The Minutes of the sitting on Thursday 3 February have been distributed.
You then mentioned, Mrs Schroedter, the section of the guidelines relating to urban and rural development, pointing out that urban development was not sufficiently taken into consideration.
When we have a crisis we have to clearly identify in advance that if there is a problem, those responsible are liable.
Indeed, it is in this spirit and in the framework of this mandate, which the Commission framed for its own opinion, but using all the terms thereof, plus everything between the lines.
We are therefore voting against paragraph 7 of the report.
I fully support the statements made by Commissioner Prodi in today's session.
It has become eminently political.
It provides the opportunity for local communities to identify their development potential and become actively involved in addressing those problems.
Macedonia also serves as a model for another reason.
There is no freedom without rules.
The reports are late, and, in addition, they were very hastily discussed by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
This programme, together with the SAVE II programme, integrating the environmental aspect into energy policy, establishes a foundation for a real Community strategy to achieve clean energy while reducing our dependence.
As far as the budget is concerned, as already stated, URBAN is there to support and complement national policy.
Where water charges are concerned, the present directive will constitute Europe' s water policy for the next three decades.
Parliament cannot, in any case, at present do anything about the matter.
Today, we are witnessing one of these cases, which, on the surface, may seem to be of minor importance and affect only the specific industry, but which, if it is allowed to pass without an authoritative intervention by the European Union, will become an unwritten rule which will cause problems for many of the Member States and the Union as a whole.
I too want to congratulate Mrs Attwooll and say that I agree with most of what she said.
I should like the vote on the Community EQUAL initiative to be postponed because we need a bit more time to negotiate an important point.
It is widely known that a significant proportion of aid is today granted under the Member States' national policies, which are not always complementary or well coordinated. A great deal of the waste and inefficiency associated with aid from the European Union and its Member States is the result of precisely this lack of coordination and complementarity between the actions of individual Member States and the proposals and actions of the European institutions.
Does the Council consider that such accusations should be put before the War Crimes Tribunal for a thorough judicial investigation?
As far back as 1981, the Commission had already stated its position in favour of clearly adopting the principle of unitary insolvency proceedings.
As I have already said, the Commission is aware of its own responsibilities and it is accordingly putting the finishing touches to an initial proposal for a scoreboard so that the institutions and other interested parties can assess the progress made in implementing the required measures and in complying with the deadlines set down in the Treaty of Amsterdam, in the Vienna action plan and in the conclusions of the Tampere European Council.
The regularisation of illegal immigrants in certain countries, including your own, must act as an example to others. These illegal immigrants nowadays constitute a plethora of vulnerable people at the mercy of slum landlords, an oppressed workforce subject to economic exploitation, rendering them modern-day slaves.
.
Permit me one further comment. Although it was less evident in the case of the consequences of the storm, the tanker disaster off the French coast has made it very clear that we need to give the Commission a helping hand on another matter.
I hope the person who tabled the amendment will agree to this.
These are of long standing, but are being addressed already within NATO.
If the Commissioner is unable to do so today then would she be prepared to inform the committee in writing of how matters stand and what stage negotiations between the CEN and the Economic Commission are at?
Because it has been said that men do not usually get involved in discussions on women' s rights, I thought I might contribute the views of a contemporary politician and intellectual, Francis Fukuyama, to today' s debate.
There are, of course, cases when state aid can be necessary and legitimate, for example helping companies restructure.
I think this proposal is a good one.
I want to refer to the political position here.
It has to be redistributed time and again.
We must support initiatives increasing the availability and improving the distribution and management of the region's very scarce water resources.
There is no doubt that we have reached a fundamental point, highlighted by Mrs Frassoni, given that we now have an automatic information system.
On behalf of the Commission, I would be more than happy to make myself available to Mr Karas in case he would like further information on this genuinely important point.
Therefore, the report allows them to be members of political parties and to be members of political bodies affiliated to their parties.
What decision will the Council adopt to put an end, once and for all, to this ethnic cleansing and to guarantee respect for the human rights of the whole population of Kosovo, irrespective of race or creed?
Mr Fischler, I am delighted that the Commission responded favourably to our request in the last and constructive debate which we had on this issue and has asked to attend our next meeting this month to inform us about the future preparatory ICCAT meeting.
However, if, on verifying the progress made during 1999, which is within the competence of this Parliament in accordance with the Treaty, we leave behind the stage of great declarations and look at the decisions actually taken and carried out, the scene looks considerably darker, Mr President.
I believe that consideration ought to be given to wording the overall definition of the requirements under the proposal in such a way that it includes a strict and explicit condition to the effect that causing deterioration of the environment must be avoided.
However, I do think that it is necessary, as he always states too, that, in the next IGC, changes will be made to codecision, when unanimity will no longer be necessary.
This is what we have, and only practical experience will show us in detail if and where there are shortcomings and what additional steps will have to be taken.
Very rapid and direct involvement of south-east Europe in the life of the European institutions has also led us to suggest that a limited number of observers invited from the national parliaments should be accepted into the European Parliament, and that staff from those countries could work in the Court of Justice and the Commission.
Everyone is free to choose their lifestyle.
Both the Commission and the Council have been making very optimistic speeches here today as well.
Sometimes this calls for mergers of activities.
Last month, as Romano Prodi has just said, we launched a thorough evaluation of activities and resources throughout the Commission and we will fully report on that in September.
Some of these differences have already been ironed out, but others persist.
So far, efforts on the part of the Commission to ask for improperly obtained money to be returned only had limited success.
The Commission believes that major structural change is required in our system of food safety to ensure the twin objectives of assuring the highest standard of food safety and restoring consumer confidence.
Our world is now dominated by a single logic or, I could say, a single god of money at work instead of people at work.
It must form the basis for our partners' political will.
But we have also duly noted the concerns expressed by many other Members about other countries, notably Indonesia, East Timor, the Moluccas and Burma.
I have a number of ideas which should be put across.
Maritime transport, industrial and urban pollution and waste also have negative effects on fisheries whose problems do not just come from overfishing.
The second is that the translation services of the Court of First Instance and the Court of Justice should be separated.
At the end of the day, one of the fundamental tenets of economic theory is that the market is failing in many respects and anyone who takes issue with this is nothing more than an ideologue.
Everywhere this violence is exacerbated by the spread of extremist movements.
Did anyone find work?
Mr Haarder, to my knowledge no official has been authorised to say such a thing.
Madam President, we are not asking for more bureaucracy, as Mr Karas put it just a few minutes ago.
We are therefore working diligently in this respect. Madam President, if, a few months ago when I had the pleasure of appearing before you for the first time, I had told you that I would be able to announce on 1 March 2000 that the first meeting of the Political Committee had been held today, that the Military Committee would be up and running within a week after that and that tomorrow the first members of the Military Staff would start to arrive at the building which we are to use, many of you would surely have thought that the High Representative was going mad.
As your rapporteur has requested, I shall send you the detailed information regarding the system for the implementation of this strand.
It is up to the Commission' s delegations in the developing countries to assume a leading role in the development of this political dialogue and to ensure that all countries follow this line of approach.
It means taking a very hard look at how the use of internal and external resources can be most effectively balanced in the interest of the Union.
If ever a country deserved help from aid donors it was Mozambique.
Thirdly, it seems to me important that the Commission should play a role in resisting the temptation to create independent agencies which would distort the very essence of the Commission, in order to guarantee uniform application by international bodies.
But I should like to stress the fact that, on this issue of the environment, the budget issue is a central one and Parliament cannot yield to the blackmail which requires it to be the only reasonable party in the deal.
We will try to address them, but it is not easy.
This means that the 15 000 tonnes of cargo released into the sea include 15 tonnes of highly toxic products.
The European consumer organisation, which has asked us to support the common position on this point, is to my mind letting the consumer down.
We are prepared to consider re-weighting the votes in the Council of Ministers, provided that the larger Member States are willing to agree to every Member State having a full and equal Member of the Commission.
We agree with this approach and despite the lack of funds, this evening' s result will serve to greatly boost this strategy and this opportunity for Europe, which will then give rise to an economic factor and a growth factor; culture then, and an institutional aspect, the basis for structuring a vast community, a prerequisite for economic growth, and not the complete opposite, as Europe, in its cultural habits, has perhaps been used to viewing things in the past.
There have been some votes where we have not followed the guidelines of the Group of the European People' s Party, and we have voted in favour of the Terrón i Cusí resolution, which we consider on the whole to be excellent.
There is no doubt whatsoever that this revision process will be the most important thing to affect the fishing industry for many years.
Following a letter I received yesterday, I immediately informed the assistants that we would propose that they be allowed to hold a meeting or demonstration, probably in the near future and possibly in the next month.
Together we should work towards this goal in the interests of the citizens, and what I expect to come out of the Intergovernmental Conference is that the relevant Cologne decision will be revised here at the end of the year.
Since Amsterdam, three terms have taken centre stage: complementarity, coordination and cohesion.
In addition, however, and very importantly, because it is a transition period, there will be training, there will be advice, there will be support, there will be assurances.
These are gigantic problems but they seem to be taboo here.
In recent times, Africa has raised hopes and has received offers of help, but nothing tangible has yet been achieved. In recent years in Africa, we have not seen a shift from totalitarian regimes to democracy, but quite the contrary - a shift from democracy to totalitarian regimes.
It will have to initiate these negotiations.
It is true that there was a joint decision by the Council and Parliament seeking to discontinue emergency lines.
(Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution)
This is indeed also stipulated in Article 248.
It is not a lot to ask.
I would like to mention one final point.
We need our governments to put up the financial resources needed to give us effective control and we need them also to stop dragging their feet when it comes to maritime safety.
I know that we do a great deal of good, but let us start with this very essential aspect.
In fact, over the last decade, the temperature has risen more than in the rest of the century.
We are very grateful for his leadership on this issue and for that of some of his colleagues, a number of whom are in the House this evening - Mrs Pack, Mr Lagendijk and others.
The implementing regulation will establish a minimum Community programme and an extended Community programme.
Commissioner Byrne, it appears that you want to engage in a test of strength with Parliament.
We have what we require in order to deal with end-of-life cars.
We all, throughout the European institutions - in Parliament, the Council and the Commission - should be doing our best to aid Cyprus in its quest to reach a peaceful solution which brings together these two communities which have been divided for too many years.
Such vehicles are not covered by the definition of waste and are not therefore included under the directive.
There are two approaches.
Let us mention, for example, the disturbing lack of public interest, the definition of monetary policy objectives abusively reduced to the mere fight against inflation, the strange coupling of monetary federalism to a lack budgetary or fiscal federalism, the status of the present applicant countries, when they become members, vis-à-vis the euro zone, the confused reaction of the international markets to this currency with no homogeneous popular foundation, and so on. Do I also need to mention that investors who sold dollars to buy euros have lost 20% since 1 January 1999, 40% if they bought bonds, and no less than 55% if they sold yen to buy euros?
We also welcome the conclusions which we find in this document.
That is a sensible forecast to make, it is not an ambition that we have but it is a possibility that we may have to entertain.
This means that we are all aware of the political dimension of the Cyprus problem.
I believe - as do many who for years have campaigned against Haider and his brand of politics, and especially my colleagues in the Social Democratic delegation in this Chamber - that the various measures announced by the international community, insofar as they do not have any bearing on the government and its representatives, are grave and also inappropriate.
The committee based its conclusions on these critical comments.
Nevertheless, I would like to say that Bernard Kouchner' s work in this area has aimed to comply with the objectives of the relevant United Nations resolution, in an attempt to create multi-ethnic facilities which can serve the various communities, including the various aspects of the administration.
The means of achieving this are difficult but they are real.
The elderly are waiting for the European Parliament to make it possible for them to live more comfortably and with greater dignity than they do now.
There is at present a surfeit of cash looking for a home.
Here we find ourselves fundamentally at odds with last year's debate in the Council when freedom from costs for the last owner and the issue of financing were lumped together and a question mark placed over whether the last owner should really be free from costs.
This is no longer tolerable.
The key to solving the Cyprus problem is in the hands of the Turkish Government, which supports and encourages the intransigence of the Turkish Cypriot leader Raouf Denktaº.
They see land being fought over, medicine for disease but not in the parts of the world where it is most wanted, books for schools - but not at all in the least-developed areas of our world, 50% of the world's population never making a telephone call in their whole life.
The Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities has not been able to vote in favour of the Andersson report. This does, of course, contain a number of good observations.
I would like to briefly comment on the Commission' s proposal to amend the directive on the transport of dangerous goods by road.
I would like to enter into the two elements of this topic in more detail.
Although a few other groups have been mentioned, it is the Member States, in particular, which are on the lookout.
By equalising tariffs, i.e. treating citizens and economic operators on a basis of strict equality with regard to the cost of the service, by meeting the obligation to provide a universal service, while complying with the requirement for quality of service, postal services reflect the concern which we must have to ensure equality between different regions and the people resident in them.
In fact, the beneficiaries of too many and too high subsidies will eventually just take these for granted.
Unfortunately we are not able to give guarantees and we can only continue to monitor and try to do the clean-up exercise.
So far, the promises which have been made are still, however, to be fulfilled, especially where transparency is concerned.
Mrs Wallström has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
We need a competition policy which can and will introduce controls on the activities of these private-sector monopolies.
Amendment No 1 clarifies the point that, although the data are to be scientifically based, they are being collected for wider decision-making purposes.
To give a non-contentious example, no commercial exhibitions can be held here in Parliament for obvious reasons.
A federal and centralist EU which intervenes more and more in the government of the Member States is in actual fact less well placed for enlargement.
The Community initiatives we are debating could play a positive part subject to certain preconditions.
Is a substance as poisonous as cyanide really to be used in the mining industry and in the production of metals?
Students are an obvious example.
Let us just consider for a moment.
This new disaster raises the problem of the integration of the environmental acquis communautaire in candidate countries.
In recent times, in this House, we have sadly had to discuss the various faces of extremism in Europe.
URBAN is designed to find solutions to urban decay, and this is something of great concern to the elderly and therefore of great concern to the Pensioners' Party.
This increased awareness does not, however, affect identity alone.
Is this not, indeed, what is so distressing to some Socialist Members of the European Parliament?
In these regions but also in some districts of towns and cities, as Mr Posselt explained so clearly, post offices and postmen have an almost socio-cultural role, I might say, which goes beyond merely delivering mail.
It will be possible for this force to be deployed at any given moment within 60 days, or two months, to prevent a crisis and for it to remain in action to prevent conflict for a period of one year. This is a major operation and an important objective but I can say that we are in a position to meet this challenge which the Heads of State and Government posed in Helsinki.
The first comment, which has been made by many others too, is whether women should be mentioned separately.
We oppose the excessive control the central administration of the Union and its Member States exercises and we are calling for a reduction in the bureaucracy that has taken root in the drafting and implementation of programmes.
However, I would like to express my position with regard to a few detailed proposals.
In the same way, this damage and these tragedies which are happening, as in Romania, are not the problem of the legislative, but of the executive and of the governments.
It also adds related institutional questions and issues which may be included in the negotiations depending on the Portuguese and French presidencies.
I also stressed the need for prevention.
I wonder if you would answer a question concerning investment by EU companies in the EU applicant countries.
And yet, under these difficult conditions, especially since the military intervention in the Balkans by NATO, some of these genuinely European countries have demonstrated a sense of responsibility which entitles them to aspire to join the Community.
I am making a personal commitment to do so.
For instance, it should be pointed out that fallen timber provides the best breeding ground for the bark beetle' s larvae, and we are not yet in a position to assess the repercussions this will have.
This is what we need to do for the Balkans.
We shall therefore confine ourselves to highlighting a few issues.
This cannot, however, be grounds for an extension of the original time limit.
But I do give you credit for your intense work, the number of meetings held, your efforts to create a rapid intervention force, your specific efforts to prevent crises, to manage them or stop them through civilian means and, if necessary, by military means.
What policy should we use to achieve these objectives?
Quality, sustainability, innovation are at the forefront of the Commission' s own policy and are priorities recognised by the Council of Ministers.
I will not go into the details due to lack of time, but this is perhaps one illustration of the fact that the Commission does not stop its work as liberalisation progresses.
Those representing Europe who are active at the grass roots level in pursuing this objective, and I am thinking in particular of the Special Representative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, are on the verge of despondency precisely because, since matters are improving, there is less talk of Kosovo and the urgent nature of the aid which is needed there is becoming less apparent.
I congratulate the rapporteur for having so quickly progressed further with his report.
But if we are to believe the environmental movements, even this is vain hope.
However, we are unable to agree to the text of the report, although I welcome the work carried out by Mr Schmidt, for several reasons.
There is no doubt that I myself am one of the advocates of this principle and one of those who oppose any further extension of competences at European level.
Paragraph 5 holds up this agreement as an example.
It is very important that these negotiations is not secretive with the European Parliament or the national parliaments which, when all said and done, will have their opinions to give and their positions to take in the ratification process.
In my view, it will hardly enable us to present the accession activities conducted by the Union to the citizens of Cyprus and Malta as evidence of the fact that it is worth their while joining.
The objective is thus to achieve, as closely as possible, a fine balance between the fight against organised crime and respect for personal freedoms and the dignity of the individual: an objective which now specifically applies not only to the Member States, but also to the Union, which is aspiring to become a common area of freedom, justice and security.
Just for the record, I would say that she might well also have mentioned Denmark.
We are extremely concerned about moves by the Cuban Government over the last year that have further curtailed public freedom, moves like changes in the penal code and the scope of the death penalty.
If this disaster had taken place in Guatemala or Turkey, we could have immediately used the Community budget to help the victims, but in our own countries nothing of the kind is possible because there is no suitable budget line with which to do so.
I do not expect that the board will have any function in directing the scientists how to do their work.
I am grateful for the fact that the Commission has adopted an action plan.
This is because we think that they are particularly able to create employment in the poorest and least-developed regions and we would thus contribute to reversing the harmful trends towards inequality that exist in European society and to the move towards a fairer Europe.
I do not necessarily mean financial resources.
This question should be answered in light of the fact that the age-old monopoly has de facto been undermined by all kinds of courier companies and by technological developments, such as fax and e-mail.
In social terms, it is therefore absolutely essential that we have an immigration policy with a social conscience, as President Gutierres recently stated in Spain.
If Europe has any meaning, and - my friends will pardon me telling them - if Christian democracy has any meaning, if the history of Christian democracy has any meaning, then it must declare itself radically opposed to the statements made in this manifesto and, whatever excellent reasons are given whenever history serves the same dish up again, must reject any agreement with this type of ideology and this type of organisation.
They have paid already.
I am convinced that the Bible, God' s word, is the only pure source of proper standards and real values.
Madam President, may I first thank Mr Graça Moura for weaving his way through the rather tough textiles and fibres that have made up this conciliation tapestry.
However, we in the Committee on Agriculture have not confined ourselves to approximating laws; because this proposal also encompasses genetically-modified organisms, we have tabled a further proposed amendment which affects the content and hence public health.
The new strategy outlined by the Commission communication on tourism and employment, and agreed by the Council, places the emphases on tourism gathering and disseminating information and good practice.
I hope that the mission by Commissioner Nielson and the Portuguese State Secretary will provide the information that this House needs in order to understand the current situation, and what the most urgent needs are, so that we can help the people of Mozambique, who genuinely deserve our help, in their struggle for development.
The inspections must be seen as being fair and cost-effective action to promote the wellbeing of animals and prevent increased expenditure for the EU.
I look forward to attending that meeting and hope that at last we can begin to push things forward again.
Undoubtedly there are too few women involved in politics.
There is no change in refugee policy in Austria!
To this end the High Commissioner recently launched an annual appeal for USD 53 million to enable her office to carry out these tasks.
Experience in other areas has shown that preventative vaccination has the adverse affect of creating healthy virus carriers.
Let us look at some of these reasons.
As far as I am concerned, all expenditure is real.
Finally, with the emergence, the resurgence, of the xenophobic Right within the European Union I hope that our institutions together will do their utmost to give reality to Article 6 by using Article 13 to combat discrimination, and Article 137 to combat exclusion.
Thank you, Mrs Banotti, and also the other quaestors for your effort to achieve this.
This is only useful as long as there is a sense of solidarity where rich Member States contribute to both the revenue and development of poorer Member States.
Mr President, the principle of universal human rights is undoubtedly one of the most important political legacies of the 20th century.
These countries are in the process of taking measures in preparation of free access of alcoholic products in the year 2003.
At the same time, this change of system will also lead to more onus being placed on the individual in the business world, of course.
I am certain that we are going to have more conflicts, for example with the United States.
When it comes to self-employed persons, in addition to the amendments already described, we propose that the domicile criteria should be made more stringent, and that we should make provision for the possibility of countering any abuse in the way of bogus self-employment.
I am aware that there may be different views about NATO' s action and the legitimacy of that action.
Where the scheme falters is in the enforcement of existing legislation.
I am referring to the continuing tragedy of anti-personnel landmines which present an obstacle to so many development programmes, to post-conflict reconstruction, and which ruin the lives of many of the most vulnerable in some of the poorest parts of the world, particularly in developing countries.
Is this simply a political gesture?
The main resources of these and neighbouring regions are those granted by nature, which is nowadays too often being punished by man' s activities.
Therefore, subject to verification which I or someone else will give immediately after this sitting, I can confirm what you have just said, that the Commission has never said or authorised anything of this sort.
This is the only way of respecting Article 127 of the Treaty.
There is ,of course, elasticity of demand, in this case a price elasticity of demand.
Mr Chirac has described those who engage in this as the Aids virus of the world economy.
Having given them thorough consideration, I can tell you that the proposals made under paragraphs 2, 4, 5 and 7 are acceptable to the Commission and are adopted.
Mr President, through the consolidation of existing directives this framework directive establishes the basic principle of a sustainable water policy in the European Union.
In this context, I should like to make a request and ask the Commissioner responsible, who is with us here today, to table an appropriate text as soon as possible with a view to continuing to make it safer for traffic to transit tunnels in the future, so that we in Europe do not have to experience any more such disasters on this scale.
There will be a functioning majority and likewise a functioning opposition.
As Budgets Commissioner, here responsibilities already include relations with the Court of Auditors.
The European Commission should therefore be able to participate in the construction of port and airport infrastructure to provide links between regions.
This has been agreed for the marine environment and it is obvious that this agreement will also apply to other waters too.
So, the Commission, in bringing forward their new proposals, must remember those sparsely populated rural areas and not put anything in this legislation which will deprive those areas of the opportunities of having those services.
One of the most important things, for me, personally, is that the common regulations should not cause smaller companies to go under.
You have seen yourself as the guardian of the Treaties, and that is indeed your role.
A communication later this year will give full details.
Your action programme and your objectives are reserved, even silent, specifically on the stimulation of public investment which is needed.
But I do know that we have never felt inferior to men, particularly in politics.
Aid that is based on the self-seeking ambitions of a nation gives companies unfair advantages, thus distorting competition and leading to an ineffective, uneconomic division of Europe' s meagre resources.
He can come with both the hats that he wears as a Commissioner.
This seems a particularly perverse outcome since the Windward Islands are one of the smallest and most vulnerable of the ACP states and they are now going to have to pay the highest price for this new Lomé arrangement.
It has to be said that, in approaching development policy in the context of foreign policy, the European Union is bound to go down the same road as many Member States have done with their own development policies in the context of their individual foreign policies.
We shall vote against these objectives, because we are fighting against this policy both in Parliament and on the streets.
The two Assemblies have been dominated by the negotiations on renewal of the Lomé Convention and I look forward to the signature of a new Convention and its rapid ratification by all the countries concerned.
Why should the very same people as taxpayers or as future car buyers, pay again to dispose of the vehicle that the manufacturer has made the profit from?
Effective implementation of this initiative could have a cumulative result because it could inspire similar action at regional and local levels, thus increasing its political importance still further since women need to feel the effects of European policy in their day-to-day life in real terms.
Do not listen to the report' s demands that temporary staff should have their employment confirmed.
I want us to be in a position in which we can say: 'It is not like that any more. We are running things as efficiently and competently as we can' .
In that respect we must recognise this innovation, this step, even if, as Mr Schulz just pointed out, simply supplementing a rather old convention is not really a particularly bold step.
There are certain other key issues: relations with Ukraine, relations with Russia, relations with neighbouring countries and more importantly, the important question of relations with the southern Mediterranean which will be a crucial point for European history, and for security and peace in Europe for future generations. In this regard, we have a responsibility towards the whole of Africa.
Nevertheless, as my colleague, Commissioner Diamantopoulou has already underlined on other occasions, when deciding whether or not to revise the directive immediately, different considerations must be taken into account.
Thirdly, the European Parliament - through a joint working group within the Joint Assembly - must make a major effort to achieve stability in ACP countries' budgets through the selection of budgetary items to permit economic and, above all, social development, and by monitoring income and fiscal policies in force in the ACP countries.
A warlord has become President and he has even been described as a reformer in some western quarters.
The Council' s proposal must comply with legislation of the national Member States in the field of criminal law.
The second important problem is that we have been asked for payments, the donors have made commitments and, obviously, we are the only ones actually paying.
I also believe that the Commission, or President Prodi, has acted as a guardian of the Treaties.
Let me read what it says in my brief - and as it is in my brief it must be true! "I would like to stress again that the Commission has accepted all the Ombudsman's recommendations contained in his draft recommendations of July 1999".
Why has the Commission not informed us of this formal request from Macedonia?
I am firmly convinced that the most sensible way of protecting the health of European citizens in the ecological chain is through the production of feedingstuffs in the region for the region.
Social exclusion, the programme for women, the efforts we are making in the social protection area, everything needs to be looked at now in the light of the new reality of the information society.
By focusing the Community's development policy on internationally agreed targets and strategies we will pave the way for better complementarity with the Member States.
I believe that the fact that Culture and, fittingly, Education and Youth now fall within the same Commissioner' s remit, will also serve to guarantee more synergy between these three programmes, which are certainly worthwhile programmes for the citizens of the European Union.
It is just a question of how.
In this connection, I am very glad to say that soon after the Socrates and Culture 2000 programmes get under way officially at the meeting of the Council of Ministers in March in Lisbon, the country holding the presidency of the EU is to organise a conference to discuss the situation of public libraries.
Because what is it that unites us in Europe? Surely it is the values and principles of freedom, democracy and respect for human rights, more than anything.
These first three subjects are very important but they are subjects which were explored in detail by our Member States during the last IGC.
We will not put up with it for much longer and we are looking for immediate action on that issue.
The debate is closed.
The world' s currency dealing centres will hardly agree to the tax revenue being used, for example, for a variety of well-meaning, UN-backed purposes throughout the world without a considerable amount of the revenue remaining with them.
I will end now.
This will make the Commission itself more efficient and encourage the use of new technologies outside the Commission.
With regard to the second contribution, what we propose is that the exact amount and the date for the implementation of the second stage should be decided in accordance with the external financial needs of Kosovo and the contributions of other bilateral donors.
We are and will remain among those fighting against Europeanist dictatorship. We call on all the people of Europe to resist your monstrous projects.
We now demand from the European Commission clear pledges concerning the following points.
As I said, we are not making value judgements about specific actions.
We have great confidence in the Portuguese Presidency' s ability to bring this task to a successful conclusion, and indeed great expectations thereof. Portugal is a small country, but being a small country is no reason why one may not have great ambitions.
In my opinion, we should look further into this point, and I also think that the Marpol Treaty, which comes into effect in 2001, should be looked at very closely.
A programme such as INTERREG is there precisely to support regional development projects across national borders, projects which make it possible to build centres of economic growth at European level which will be able to take up the challenge from our competitors on a global scale.
Without this transfer from Portuguese waters, the level of the Bay of Biscay TAC would have to be multiplied by ten in order to grant adequate catches to France.
These are the reasons why the Commission believes, because of the prudence that has to be exercised in this field, that these various limits are necessary.
This is the only way to enforce the strict ban on all aid not covered by the code.
Mr President, this proposal aims to incorporate into Community law an ICCAT recommendation from 1998 which should have been binding from June 1999, but which only reached this House at the end of last year.
Thank you, Commissioner Schreyer.
Take the fishing agreements, where we recognise the unsustainability of current fishing practices within the EU waters.
Now that Macedonia is prising itself loose from the crushing embrace of Communism and nationalism, it is our duty to act and provide support in no uncertain terms.
Madam President, I reiterate my thanks to Parliament for its support and for, once again, having shown the importance it attaches to culture in the context of the Union.
Pensions: The document states that, 'Member States must remain responsible for modernising social protection systems' , and yet the Commission itself intervened in the case of Italy, repeatedly calling for swift changes to the pension system to reduce rights and decrease pension payments.
Lastly, I would like to assure you, Mr Ford, that the Commission will remain vigilant and will not fail to act in accordance with its responsibilities, should it prove necessary.
It also provides for the euro to be protected even prior to its circulation, which will fill a gap in legislation in some Member States.
In this respect, we should heed the words of von Eieck, and doubtless also those of the great Italian liberal Bruno Leoni, who warned precisely against the risks of an abnormal increase in anti-competition policies.
Now, what has happened and what is still happening in Chechnya is similar to genocide.
We allowed it and the result is that our young people can travel and broaden their education.
So our response must be rapid and strong.
Where, above all, will the required money come from, and where should this observatory be located?
Mr President, regarding Mrs Lynne's comments yesterday about health and safety in this building, I presume she was talking about the drains because there is a dreadful smell of drains on the fifth floor in the Tower.
Obviously, I cannot adopt a stance on this special case and on the particular product which has been mentioned here, but I shall go directly back and see what I can obtain in the way of information about this particular case.
Why should a European food authority be an essential part of that structure of change?
We must win back their faith in EU politics.
It is not a quota!
It would appear that we are in agreement about this.
We ought to seize this opportunity and bring the last colonial episode in Africa to an end.
There is no need at all for supranationalism in this area.
But the report before the House tonight is a prime example of how, if we are not very careful, we can produce very grandiose-sounding ideas that lack the substance to make them relevant to the people who benefit directly from them.
We fully support the innovative approach towards setting up development partnerships and organising the exchange of experience at European level as an integral part of the EQUAL programme.
The highest level of stability and even improvement of social security can be found in the southern countries.
Ultimately, the polluter must pay.
We have had the dioxin scare, BSE and many other problems.
The financial allocation has not in fact been upgraded since the programme was created, even when the membership of the EC was increased to fifteen Member States following enlargement.
You say that you are against war, but as Secretary-General of NATO you started a war.
Mr President, the reason why it is important to return to the subject of the oil slick, two and a half months after the wreck of the Erika, is because the extent of the economic, social and ecological disaster affecting our Atlantic coastline is, in fact, far greater than the first assessments gave us to understand.
For years the Council has been blocking the strategic development impact assessment of plans and programmes.
On the other hand, Parliament is issuing a resolution in one vote, for which we can see the agreement amongst the various speakers who have preceded me. I think that this is an opportunity to put parliamentary pressure on the doubts or evasions of a few governments and I think that we are providing the Commission with a powerful political act for the preparation of a European maritime area.
On the basis of these views, we wish to express our categorical opposition to the 'modernisation' of the social protection system that the Commission statement is promoting, and to make it clear that we cannot vote in favour of the report by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs which is under discussion.
The Commission is in favour of codification and will, in the foreseeable future, once the proposals have been approved and subject to its right of initiative, concentrate its efforts on drafting a codified version.
These are events and situations that cannot be tolerated.
When there are major set-piece debates scheduled between this House and the European Commission in the future, we should clear all of our lines on what are our mutual expectations at least one full working month in advance.
I do not think there is any difference between us and the Ombudsman.
It has also had the distinction of strengthening the role of local authorities, the non-governmental sector and local communities and of supporting new partnership approaches to urban regeneration.
When they landed in Somalia, before having to withdraw in disarray, it was not to guarantee their takeover of the oil route, it was to restore hope.
Mr President, here we have what is basically a good measure.
Can I assure her that our attitude is not guided by any motivation to farm out.
An appropriate statute and the right of movement and settlement for residents of non-EU countries is something which the Spanish People' s Party has been advocating for some time.
I therefore wonder whether the Commission' s package on postal liberalisation will include the preservation of free competition, because it is very possible that - as has happened in most sectors in the Community today - it will lead to concentrations of large companies which will cancel out the benefits of this theoretical liberalisation.
I ask this because of the issue of coherence, the subject of this morning' s discussion.
So, there should be no positive discrimination to include women.
For we all know how long it takes a tree to grow.
While the report was being prepared, it was interesting to discuss the Union' s regional policy in general.
That is something that the world needs and is a very good signal in the framework of the whole discussion of globalisation.
Firstly, the European Parliament has already expressed its opinion on the subject of General Pinochet, but, furthermore, there are certain questions to be borne in mind.
The impression that Africans get, namely that they are inferior world citizens, is not unfounded.
This would cause problems for those countries where reserves of water are unevenly distributed.
However, it also seems to me that the pensions of many elderly people are being reduced as a result of national budget constraints.
We intend shortly to issue a communication from the Commission on precisely this question.
LEADER + will last a year longer than LEADER 2.
It is, I repeat, breaking new ground but it is very important that we do it for a number of reasons and policing in Kosovo, policing elsewhere, is the most dramatic and obvious example.
This is very time-consuming, and, more importantly, there is no acceptable level of pollution for dangerous chemical substances.
The spate of mergers, takeovers and transfers that we are experiencing with the deepening of the market means that we must act to update the matrix of information and consultation directives that we have adopted in the past; but we must also complement them with the new general framework of information and consultation and an updating of the works council directive.
Some of them are our ACP partners.
The report on the experience acquired in the work carried out under this directive is part of our work programme for the current year.
No more than EUR 2.8 billion is provided for EQUAL, as Mrs Stenzel' s balanced report makes clear.
We therefore ask the Commission to pay special attention to the issue of maritime and island cooperation when zone planning next comes up for review.
.
Commissioner, do you have any reason, on public health grounds, for a difference in the taxation rates on, for example, Scotch whisky or French Bordeaux wine or even my colleague's Bavarian beer?
The stability pact is in place and we will continue to press ahead with monitoring compliance by the various Member States, despite the fact that the results are clearly positive in all the Member States where we have analysed the position as regards the stability of the government deficit.
It is nevertheless extremely important to ban the remaining four, both in the interests of human health and for the sake of the animals themselves.
Then, last November, before the ceasefire was over, the Spanish Government spokesman, Mr Piqué, declared that his government had done and would in the future do everything possible to hinder present moves towards a political solution in the Basque country.
However, it seems that none of the Member States meets this figure due to a lack of inspectors.
Nonetheless, I agree with you, Mr President of the Commission, that many more steps to strengthen the European Union will be needed in the future because the European Union is not strong enough either to master the huge, inevitable task of enlargement or to control current and potential movements which, to put it mildly, have an ambivalent attitude towards European values of democracy and tolerance and the desire to integrate all the people on our continent.
In short, the issue is an important one.
This makes it necessary to have proper rules governing transport of this kind.
However, some people' s view of the fisheries sector can be extremely simplistic, ranging from mere folklore to the insult of regarding fishermen as insensitive pirates and predators.
I am, moreover, proud that my own country has been involved in tabling this regulation which we now hope will swiftly be adopted by the Council.
(FR) It is with great satisfaction that I welcome this report on the pre-accession strategy for Cyprus and Malta, whose accession is vital to the future of the European Union in the Mediterranean.
It focuses on non-technical elements, helping to build energy efficiency infrastructure, and the purpose of the programme is to create an environment in which investments and energy efficiency will be promoted.
Thank you, Mrs Kinnock.
I would like to start by underlining two remarks made by the Member of your Parliament, Mr Gasòliba.
We must point out, however, that even if the actual appropriations available for LEADER + were increased, the Community initiative would still be ineffectual because such programmes cannot compensate for or blunt the anti-farming nature of the CAP that will be implemented in the context of 'Agenda 2000' and the WTO. The real outcome of such programmes is to act as a cover-up, to lead people off the scent and to salve consciences.
In Finland, an honorary company of the Finnish army was saluting the new President of the Republic, with the words "Good morning, Madam President."
Mr President, let me begin by saying that I have no problem with approving this very sound report in principle.
We failed over the last six years to get any compromise or agreement with regard to this matter.
Yet we do not have much time.
Large design margins are being provided in order to ensure safe operation of the plant according to the environmental conditions of the site.
But, over and above that, it is the technologies and the means used to prevent and deal quickly and efficiently with this type of disaster which are being called into question.
You will be familiar with some reputable companies, our French fellow MEPs will be familiar with some reputable companies, but we must look carefully at exactly which companies do not fulfil requirements, and these must be struck off the list.
Nevertheless, the way in which our committee intends to see this text through, with the drive and stubborn desire of its Chair, Mrs Theato, will not be without its critics.
As far as the decision to balance the accounts is concerned, we shall abstain from voting, and where, finally, the motion for a resolution is concerned, we shall attach most importance to the many correct instructions contained in this and vote in favour of it.
In our opinion, the Commission' s role in the near future will be dependent on some of the European political initiative being returned by the governments of the Member States following the Santer Commission scandal.
I feel, however, that the European Union has so far not actually come up with any expression of Community solidarity at the requisite level.
However, efforts are increasingly oriented towards the establishment of a self-sufficient healthcare system in the province.
This is Angola' s reality.
And the Israelis were certainly not impressed by the discourteous behaviour of Minister Farouk al-Shara in Shepherdstown.
Beyond this, I think that implementing MAGPs in a mechanical way will no longer be appropriate in the coastal regions that have been affected.
What is the point of destroying the French fishing fleet, at Sète or elsewhere, for example, if every year France has to spend two billion euros on importing fish caught and landed, while our fishermen are not allowed to catch it.
We reduced the 243 proposed amendments in the Environment Committee to 77, but another 30 have been added.
As far as the Commission is concerned, it will, ladies and gentlemen, be taking initiatives to inaugurate and orchestrate this public debate.
Through his management, Commissioner Monti achieves good results, as did his predecessor and, clearly, he has established a guarantee which, in parallel with the creation and development of the European internal market, has been capable of establishing the corresponding corrective measures so that the market economy within the Union may work adequately, without the distortions which we economists know may arise when the market is enlarged, as has happened in the European Union since 1993.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, Commissioner, I think we need this directive.
We have to take a decision now regarding the Commission' s good intentions, but there is still no structural outline for these good intentions.
Thank you very much for the clarification Mr Wurtz.
Gender has in fact been included in the compulsory introductory course for new employees, but then with only one to two hours devoted to it on each course.
If nothing is done now, we will be letting all the effort that we have made in the past to help Mozambique in its development go to waste.
The time has come for concrete measures and for putting theory into practice.
I know there has been an analysis of the implications for the Commission of the change.
However, since last summer the measure just mentioned has been in dispute.
I shall therefore postpone the approval of the Minutes.
By refusing to allow the idea of good governance to become a tool, in the hands of technocrats, for imposing new sets of conditions, the European Union is demonstrating wisdom and modesty.
In Germany, there would probably be dancing in the streets if we were to say that we were holding a referendum on payments to the European Union and we shall pay if the German people are prepared to pay.
I understand your concern, Mr Napolitano, and an interinstitutional working group will be set up. Its first meeting should take place in March.
I would like to point out to the Commissioner that it is not an electoral question.
According to Article 152 of the EC Treaty, we are obliged to obviate sources of danger to human health, whereby the accent is clearly on sources.
There is a willingness but fear pervades, and to assuage this fear we must find political and religious leadership not only in Ireland but throughout the European Union.
We are aware that this directive is founded on EC law and not on EU law.
Under this system, and given the total allowable catch for a species, a market is created for individual quotas for fishing rights within a certain area which the rightholders can trade amongst themselves, fish themselves or lease the rights to other fishermen for a certain time.
The revision of the common fisheries policy in 2002 is the biggest time-limited challenge facing us. We must completely overhaul, modernise or, if you prefer, update this policy in its entirety.
I remember what Portugal and Greece used to be like when I drove through those countries for the first time twenty-five years ago.
The present proposal tightens up the protection of the aquatic environment in a number of ways which exceed our current environmental objectives.
We are now dealing with the stabilisation and association agreements, that is to say a medium-term issue.
The forecast is for ten billion tourists in 2010, but unfortunately for Europe there is a reverse trend.
That is something for which I have a deep appreciation.
Mr President, what sort of government hands over one of its own citizens to people whom it itself describes as 'terrorists' and 'bandits' ?
Secondly, there is currently a democratically elected government in Chile, led by Ricardo Núñez, whose first declaration was that all those who have committed this type of crime must face justice, and I would remind you that the Chilean justice system, which is independent, is currently examining 60 complaints lodged against General Pinochet, concerning his crimes against humanity.
We also take the view that the political decision-makers must at long last change the habit of a life-time and ask the citizens in referenda, once the Intergovernmental Conference is over, whether or not they go along with the way in which Europe is to continue to develop in the future.
Pensioners will, in the future - as is already happening - have enormous sums of money at their disposal.
The resolution also stresses that previous persecution of the Albanians cannot constitute a pretext for killings, abductions, detentions, intimidation, arson, looting, destruction of property and the taking-over of houses etc.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
I would like to single Mr Wieland out for special mention, for he has the dubious honour of being the shadow rapporteur and was involved to a far greater extent than is customary in the drawing up of this report, contributing excellent and constructive ideas; and this without being in a position to receive the plaudits awarded a rapporteur.
These costs are not very high.
The Commission has on many occasions used the farm-to-table example which our colleague in the PPE Group has just underlined.
Not to make war, of course, but to protect peace.
I should like to express especial thanks to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, particularly to its rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, its chairman, Mr Gargani, the European Parliament delegation and the leaders of the political groups, the Conciliation Committee and its chairman, Mr Imbeni.
(FR) Water is a renewable but limited natural resource and needs to be properly managed.
Thank you for the follow-up question.
You will also find that these cars are suitably disposed of, that new material flows have been opened up in order to recycle materials, that 85% of the weight of a car is recycled and that 92% of all cars in the Netherlands are recycled.
This is precisely the area where it is even more important than it is in monopolies and mergers law for decisions to be comprehensible.
We were of the opinion that EURODAC was becoming a reality.
We have made a lot of progress over the past couple of years since the reformed system of scientific advice was adopted as a consequence of the BSE crisis.
That is the debate, and this question must be addressed in any discussion of the Intergovernmental Conference, its agenda or its method.
That is transparency.
Judging from the discussions held over the past five or six months, this could well be the case.
The participation of local bodies is absolutely essential.
I feel, at any rate, that for the ultimate application of LIFE, at least, there would be some way for the Union to make a significant budgetary gesture in favour of the environment.
There is no doubt that we need a legislative act here.
Secondly, we find it most regrettable that Mr Corrie' s report should mention the trade and development agreement with South Africa because, in the final analysis, this report is typical of the amateur diplomacy to which the European Commission is taking ever more frequent recourse.
Even though, as the Commission says, the texts of the treaties do not contain special provisions to regulate all the respective issues raised by technological development, it can nevertheless be said that within the legislative framework created, performing or interpreting artists enjoy broader protection than that accorded by the Treaty of Rome or even by the Community directives.
I think that we have also opted in favour of allowing the budget to be of an adequate size because, if it happens to be cancelled, then surely this does not benefit the citizen.
I declare resumed the session of the European Parliament adjourned on Friday, 21 January 2000.
It will not be tolerated, and must stop immediately.
For my group, enlargement is the first priority against which all the other possibilities for reform must be measured, be they governance, be they the intergovernmental conference, be they reform of the institutions.
Finally we are producing a census of immigrants.
Indeed, Minister, we should strive for a democracy based on equal representation as a new social contract.
I cannot accept it and I will not vote for it.
However, the main problem is with the definition of the objective which the European Union wishes to pursue with this text.
This body, for example, alongside the recently established cross-border body in Ireland for food safety, is already doing good work.
If you ratify this development, then you are ratifying the development of the Union into a body which violates the sovereignty and the freedom of the Member States, and we should then have no option but to withdraw from such a Union.
This discussion is not new.
It should seal their revival.
This is something you already know, but I would nonetheless also repeat it for the benefit of those who are listening.
We hope that the White Paper and the actions of you and your Commission will put this into practice.
My questions relate to the positive list for animal feed.
We will open an Internet forum and create permanent discussion forums.
The irresponsibility of certain elected representatives and the barely disguised complicity of the authorities have contributed to this racist explosion.
I am happy that he raised it because it is particularly important for this authority to have a high profile.
It is essential for OLAF to be monitored by a court.
I am pleased about the spirit of agreement which permeates the amendments that have been submitted to Parliament.
That goes without saying, but it is something that will only work through in the medium and long term.
You only have to realise that the category of "least developed countries" has grown from 25 to 48 countries over the last 30 years, and now represents 13% of the world' s population, yet this category only accounts for 0.4% of world exports and 0.6% of world imports or be aware of the unfortunate fact that official development aid from rich countries has fallen by around 23% since 1990.
Ireland is very supportive of the common position and many of the European Parliament amendments.
I have almost finished and I would like to say that I have personally requested a public hearing of the Committee on Transport, which would enable us to provide an immediate follow-up to the Erika case and to suggest possible future considerations.
Are we therefore talking about a car industry in crisis?
In addition, we need - and this is my first recommendation - a legislative act that includes those offences which are to the detriment of the Union' s financial interests, and in which main principles are firmly established.
B5-0179/2000 by Mrs Schroedter and others on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance
By now they are far away.
When we have finalised our proposal on the new rules and decided on the most suitable legal form, I will be happy to present our viewpoint to you.
In this regard, I liked your term, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi: we must all pull together, preferably in the same direction.
I gather that Mr Posselt has hinted at the fiscal aspects of this matter.
I must firstly congratulate the groups in this House on the high degree of consensus achieved in the motion for a resolution. I am aware of the efforts made by Members to avoid using an issue such as this for electoral purposes.
In Kosovo, we stepped in with military means, having been unable to prevent the war in ex-Yugoslavia.
Just a year ago when the Commission produced its proposals around Agenda 2000 it axed the URBAN initiative.
Madam President, with apologies to my friend, Enrique Barón Crespo, I should like to speak against this proposal.
My second question concerns the fact that, in many contexts, we talk about the ACP countries having to learn the principles of democracy.
We understand that the first priority is the economic and social agenda, which also includes what is known as 'quality of life' priorities, that is to say, the rights of citizens as consumers and as people, in relation to those questions which we always talk about, but never give sufficient priority to, that is, the European social model and its adaptation to the new circumstances, consumer rights, respect for the environment and sustainable development.
But I am also thinking of the responsibility you now have for ensuring that the new European cooperation on defence does not give rise to any kind of split between NATO and the EU or between the United States and Europe.
It is a quite different Europe which is taking shape in the long term.
Thirdly, I do not think that the decrease in the number of the working population, owing to the ageing of the population, is unavoidable and inevitable for the European Union. This is not just because of the existence of margins which would permit an increase in the number of working women and immigration, but because we need to be determined in reversing the widespread trend of early retirements from the job market, and direct the coordinated reform of social welfare systems, certainly not towards large reductions in future pension payments but towards the active use of people' s increased life expectancy and towards a longer working life.
This is no longer tolerable.
One or two years ago, Parliament adopted a report by Mrs Lööw which is extremely important in this context.
Nevertheless, as you know, this issue is now in the hands of the European Commission and it will have to take this further.
My third and last point concerns the role of the European Union.
The Member State or States concerned will then be required to answer me and I will send you this answer as soon as possible.
Paradoxically, but truly, the war in Kosovo Polje generated exactly the opposite effect: the perilous gap of confidence between the Macedonian majority and the Albanian minority became decidedly smaller.
I wonder whether the European Union can recoup this kind of cost from the environmental cowboys who appear in the so-called 'Wild East' , making use of the inadequate environmental legislation in place.
Urgent change is required today.
However I believe that we should use this opportunity for Europe to set down a marker for less red tape.
We always come back to the same basic problem in Europe: our economy does not support the individual sufficiently, nor is it sufficiently dynamic.
It is incomprehensible that ways of coexisting and ensuring mutual respect cannot be found between two communities which are mutually beneficial.
(Parliament decided to refer the report back to committee)
For its part, the European Parliament, which had fought hard to ensure that the 1997 directive was balanced and respected the requirements of a universal public service, is rather satisfied to see that the compromise it obtained then is proving to be tenable.
I can also assure Parliament that all observations made here today will be fully taken into account.
I am pleased to see that we have today arrived at a compromise motion.
Firstly, I should like to ask the Commissioner - and I am convinced that my request will fall on fertile ground - to ensure that more attention is paid to the issue of safety, be it on the roads, on the waterways or at sea.
We have amused ourselves with a pile of reports, but we have no idea what has happened to these initiatives; they have disappeared.
Although comparing Haider to Hitler is a concept without any credibility whatsoever, it has nonetheless partly achieved its purpose in unsettling some PPE/DE Members of Parliament.
Is the purpose of the famous training centres to provide jobs for instructors or trainees?
Madam President, I am totally appalled by the Commission' s, i.e. Mr Bolkestein' s, political ignorance!
I do not wish to spend time right now, Mr Berend, going into details regarding my opinion of the general points which your House has already endorsed.
LEADER II (1994-1999), for which a total evaluation has, unfortunately, not yet been completed, had a wider scope than LEADER I: there were probably over 800 beneficiaries and the sums allocated, after reallocation of resources, probably amounted to over EUR 4 000 million.
We expect concrete action from the European Commission. The fisheries and aquaculture sectors in the affected areas of Brittany and the Vendée are particularly important, well-developed and prestigious.
This Parliament has also asked the Commission to give an initial outline of the external aid policy reforms on 31 March of this year.
But for now the priority is to cope with this crisis.
There are a lot of good intentions in it, but it very much lacks concrete proposals concerning how this can all be achieved.
This will involve, for example, disposing of more than 32 million lots of used oil, removing break fluid, etc.
Mr President, Commissioner, the reason why I was so pleased with your intervention was that you had the courage to list the Member States where the political representation of women is a success, such as, for example, in Finland, France and Sweden, and equally, you had the courage to list the Member States where things in this respect are not going so well, such as, for example, my own country and Greece too, which you forgot to mention.
So, the concept for LEADER+ should retain all the positive aspects of previous programmes.
Leaving aside strategic and tactical considerations, leaving aside possible exonerations based on other people' s behaviour and above and beyond party and electoral interests, the Spanish delegation of the People' s Group of this Parliament, in full agreement with the Spanish People' s Party and the Spanish Government, clearly expresses its full agreement with the statement of 31 January by the Portuguese Presidency of the Council.
As regards the role of tourism policy in the communities concerned, we must understand that many policy sectors have a huge impact on the framework on tourism.
We meet our deadlines and afterwards we are told that we should hold on and that in order to be reasonable we must go along with the position of the others, because in the codecision procedure there is just not enough time.
I find the opposite the case.
In order to be able to develop, the countries concerned must, however, become actively involved in the global economic system.
It has to be remembered that money at present is first and foremost information, and that the global economy will, in the future, rotate more and more on the basis of information and intellectual capital.
I think many Member States among the fourteen other Member States would have many reasons not to cooperate in European Union meetings on justice, for example.
There is no point in drawing up a new economic and social agenda if you have not even finished the old one.
- (FR) Mrs McCarthy, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that the URBAN Community Initiative is being continued as this aims to support the social and economic conversion of cities and neighbourhoods in crisis, all with a view to achieving sustainable urban development.
It must be visible.
They have either been accepted or transposed with no change in the substance, or they have been rejected because the corresponding European arrangements have not been included, for example a system of penalties for violations of the rules or a complex classification structure for related groups of questions.
In fact, the problems of enlargement and climate change will offer new prospects.
Finally, you do highlight European research as being at the heart of our future.
The third aspect I would like to highlight is the strengthening and coherence of EU policies, the central theme of today' s debate.
Needless to say, safety on roads, railways and inland waterways is of key importance and, given the international nature of these types of transport, training for safety advisors should also be harmonised, therefore, as well as the requirements of the new ADR, for example, which is under way.
Mr President, the ecological disaster in the Danube reminds us of how closely linked all the countries of Europe are and how important water is to us all.
You have to assess all that and evaluate the science.
Mr President, there is agreement that we must give some thought as to how we in Europe will properly deal with end-of-life cars, although in this instance the Council has not provided a model for a suitable European environment policy.
Let me explain.
I am speaking today wearing a number of hats: firstly, as the surrogate father of this report; secondly, as the draftsperson of the opinion; and most importantly, as one who sees the tremendous advantages which can be gained for the European Union from a harmonised system of UCITS investment to ensure that monies presently being earned in Europe but invested outside the European Union and not put to the benefit of the Union economy can be retained within the economy for the creation of entrepreneurship, employment and also for guaranteeing future pension rights.
Do not confuse a real concern for the interests of investors with a populist fear of the new and the innovative and liberal approach that pays off.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems as if the world is turned upside down.
However, I must say that I am not over-pleased because I believe that this directive is not of great quality, it is going to be very difficult to implement and has many shortcomings.
It is not the job of the MEP to generate litigation or legal proceedings for judges in any arena. That would not be fulfilling our mission.
Therefore, Commissioner, we ask Mr Prodi to present us with a bold programme, and he will find that he has problems with those bodies who feel that their status quo is under threat, but not with this Parliament, which expects profound and daring changes.
Greece has seen an increase in the employment rate and, as far as I can see, an increase in productivity.
The programme which I shall present for the fifth women' s programme includes a similar initiative for systematic monitoring.
There is an ecological aspect which we should continue to give priority to.
We expect the Commission to present this as part of its proposal for a social action programme.
Such an affinity and this type of higher education is also important in the development of the constitutional state and for the aptly termed mainstream society which needs to be strengthened in countries like this.
- (IT) On behalf of the Italian Communists, I would like to express great dissatisfaction at the contents of the document, which was expected to define the strategic guidelines for Europe up until the year 2005.
Madam President, whoever has the honour, like myself, to chair the Committee on Culture, cannot fail to agree with the comments from various Members and can but congratulate the rapporteur, and Commissioner Reding, with whom he worked and who, even during the conciliation process, had difficult moments and opposed the Council - you have heard this said by everyone.
The car lobby has led too many people up the garden path.
We encourage developing countries to respect human rights.
The aim of these regional policies, which, of course, are implemented under the jointly agreed European guidelines in each Member State, i.e. each Member State is responsible for implementing this programme, is to increase opportunities for work for both men and women.
The INTERREG III programme, for which we have before us today the guidelines issued by the European Commission, pursuant to the terms of European Community Regulation No 1260 de 1999 laying down general provisions on the Structural Funds, continues these measures.
I think that consequently it will be extremely difficult indeed to compensate these rural towns through subsidies for losses in their financial revenues.
It is nothing less than legal torture.
The French delegation in our group is therefore unable to support the Decourrière report and will choose to abstain during the final vote.
I hope that these measures will help towards ensuring compliance with the Tampere Agreements on immigration and the new Spanish Act on aliens. In particular they must ensure that people arriving in Europe do not lose their dignity.
Human rights should be enforceable in law in every country of the world.
I hope this reference means that the reorganisation of the Commission currently in progress will not damage the mechanism for monitoring and implementing Agenda 2000.
The next item is the debate on topical and urgent subjects of major importance.
Are there any comments?
I would like to make it quite clear that the Liberal Group is against any political interference in companies, in terms of both finance and management.
Parliament' s amendments would mainly improve opportunities for the media enterprises that are well established in the market to move their old, in excess of 80% market share to a new environment with rigid, excessive copyright regulations.
In 1999, Europol took up its duties and we in the Commission, echoing the Portuguese Presidency' s statement today, sincerely hope that as we enter a new era in justice and home affairs and discussions start on the implementation of new powers attributed to Europol under the Treaty of Amsterdam, there will also be a discussion of democratic control and of the links between Europol and the relevant judicial institutions, and in particular Eurojust.
Pursuant to Rule 42(5), I have received a motion for a resolution to close the present debate.
The internal market needs a uniform competition policy, not only in terms of concept, but also in terms of application.
This attitude appears to me to be unjustified. I would also ask that a great deal more emphasis be placed on these points in the seventh periodic report.
First of all, as my colleague Mr Bowis has pointed out, it is retrospective and that is wrong in principle.
And it is not a question of links with the past; it is a question of prospects for the future, and nothing could be more wrong than the right and left taking a divided stand on this.
(Parliament agreed to the oral amendment) - Relating to Amendment No 9
We have asked for a Public Prosecutor' s Office and criminal law, but we also need administrative law for the EU.
If the validity of the service provision card expires on a certain date, it must end on that date.
It was a point raised by several speakers in the debate.
Question No 42 by (H-0026/00):
It is absolutely essential that companies in areas developing more slowly adopt the latest technology and know-how.
This is why, Madam President, I should like to see Mr Prodi clarify tomorrow exactly what significance he meant to give these words, so that nobody, absolutely nobody, can use this message, which is unusual and unwise, to say the least, to contribute, and that includes counter to the intentions of Mr Prodi, towards making the dangerous political operation taking place in Austria a commonplace.
I am particularly intrigued by how the Commission considers bringing this about.
The war in Chechnya, like any war, is a trail of horrors.
Yesterday, when speaking to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Commissioner Solbes specifically indicated that the prospects for this year and next for the European economy are excellent.
Amendment No 10 which I tabled on behalf of my group refers to the concept of 'economic and social cohesion' rather than 'regional development' as the European Union does not have any recognised competence in this area.
The directive must be negotiated accordingly and our citizens must be able to understand what we or rather what the Commission is planning here.
We must also ask the Commission not to prevent local authorities and individual States from coming to the assistance of businesses affected by the disaster by applying Community competition rules too strictly.
The report was a major undertaking because it also incorporates opinions from four further committees - from the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities, and the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs.
I have nothing against liberalisation and privatisation, but the premises must be right.
It is clear that such a scenario will never allow peace to be established in Angola.
The amendment which the Commission has proposed, namely equal treatment for additives authorised before or after 31 December 1987, is uncontested and has our full support.
We must not lose sight of the fact that with enlargement we have the potential to increase the number of visitors who come to Europe' s shores to see some of the traditional cultural heritage that has not been opened up to the world for quite a number of years - in fact, about forty years.
Retrospective law is bad law, it is unfair law and often it is unworkable law.
Some estimates suggest that it could take up to five years to restock the river.
That is something we do not want to see, and we have therefore voted against any such extension.
There has been a deafening silence from the Commission during the period between then and now.
Actions which promote understanding between young farmers and the EU and also create stronger links with EU candidate countries and the outside world are important.
Our group has therefore tabled a raft of amendments which, when taken together, form a real alternative resolution.
Europe must play a role in this new international regulation and I am extremely happy that today, with this debate and this motion, this question is now on the agenda of European construction.
I am very anxious that we should strengthen our relationship with them.
It is very important for this ALTENER programme to go hand in hand with this campaign and to support it.
Do you believe that consumer demand for environmentally friendly cars and more fuel-efficient cars is going to decline in the future?
I would welcome more concrete information on this.
Furthermore the proposal put forward by Mr Crowley would require a change of the ISD which at present - as I am sure he already knows - does not cover collective management business.
The first is greater transparency.
The EU can only achieve authority in the fact that it focuses on tasks that individual countries cannot attend to alone.
It has led to a critical and tragic situation in Angola.
For example, in my own region, in Manchester, the URBAN Community initiative has been a tremendous success.
It is quite clear to me that it is the responsibility of the Commission to closely monitor the evolution of the situation in the Member States according to the procedures and standards that are enshrined in Article 6 and justify the use of Article 7 of the Treaty.
Of course, we accept that amendment - it is absolutely right - and I believe that we should incorporate specific circumstances which demonstrate the climatic diversity of the European Union, which sometimes take the form of specifics and of concrete requirements for the establishment of standards and characterisations of a technical nature.
We have not restricted ourselves to the three so-called leftovers, which is, in any case, an incorrect label.
We should also have the humility to recognise that, if we wanted to have a strategic debate accompanied not just by a presentation and elucidation by the President of the Commission, but also by a five-year programme, we should have the mechanisms in place more than just a week in advance of the debate in this House, so as to be able to discuss and convey in due time to the Commission what our wishes were.
Nevertheless, we cannot deny that some positive political progress has been made in the Middle East of late.
It is therefore understandable that the Council finds it difficult to agree.
Secondly, the Military Committee, which represents the various Chiefs of Staff of the fifteen countries, will hold its first meeting on 7 March which will be just over two months after the Helsinki declaration.
Our regions have become aware of belonging to an environment that they are connected to, not only in geographical terms but also in terms of their culture and the history of their peoples, hence the intensely expressed aspiration to become more deeply rooted in this environment.
I would also like to remind Members that, as a candidate for membership of the European Union, Turkey will - and this is a pre-accession condition, which is an important point - sooner or later, as part of its own pre-accession strategy, have to adopt a set of policies geared towards adopting the entire acquis communautaire in good time, and including therefore all provisions already in force on nuclear safety.
Mr President, acts of racist and xenophobic violence are taking hold at the heart of Europe.
My views are exactly the same when it comes to the third subject with which I wish to deal, namely China.
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
As a result, this report is very satisfactory and, on behalf of my Group, I therefore ask for its approval.
The Dineh people belong to the North-American Navajo Indians.
There is a natural resistance in the developing world to anything that would lower standards of living and create further unemployment.
No one really knows what these elections are to lead to and what kind of parliament is to be formed as a result.
I am beginning to feel a little worried because this may lead, partially at least, to exclusion.
In the interim stage, its basic duty will be to advise the Council and myself and to take initial decisions on how to set up the final bodies which we will, of course, try to have in place by the end of this year or the beginning of next.
I will not tackle the issue of quality and the best available technologies, because I believe that we will return to a discussion of this directive.
The proof of this lies in the fact that the groups in this House have reacted and tabled several motions for resolutions.
The manufacturer is and should be liable and the last holder and/or owner must be able to hand back the car without any cost.
Only by tackling the arguments and policies of the FPÖ can we prevent a radicalisation of Austrian politics.
I hope that our future partners will demonstrate greater responsibility.
Policy on tourism is not, however, something which ought to be planned and decided upon by the European Parliament or by the EU as a whole.
All in all, though, I deem this report to be worthwhile.
The first proposal extends the number of instruments in which an 'undertaking for collective investment in transferable securities' (UCITS) can invest.
There is one thing I shall again finally emphasise: that the purpose of all this is, of course, that we should acquire such credibility when we exercise economic and military pressure that military force is not used at all.
Each Member State must take the necessary measures to ensure that the offences set out in the framework decision are punishable.
We must liberalise trade within the region and between the region and the European Union; we must contribute to building infrastructural links that will end its centuries-old isolation; we must intensify efforts to build a democratic, pluralist society in these countries with institutions, public structures, police forces and a structured civil society, but, above all, we must press these countries to work together in the context of a united region, as regards both politics and the economy.
A scoreboard tells people the score; it has to be up-to-date and it has to be clear and visible.
The treaties have been revised, new managerial tasks have been attributed by this Parliament and by the Council to the Commission, and many other changes of great significance have occurred in our Union, in our continent and in the world.
It would have been much better if we had actually made the effort to reach compromises and to develop a common vision.
It should not be the case that one Member State, under the pretext of calling on the subsidiarity principle, can decide that all funding should go to one group.
The sending of data is completely voluntary and failure to do so will only mean that certain financial assistance, which is not very significant anyway, will not be received.
Let us not forget that when these policies are effective, they also benefit European citizens by directly improving their quality of life.
I want to underline that point.
In the end tax would politicise the global, undemocratic system of financial power.
We have established a new Directorate-General, yet it has only 70 people all told.
The "Erika" incident was serious especially for the people of Brittany most closely affected, but it was devastating for the wildlife of much of Europe.
It is in fact about protecting the euro against counterfeiting, which is an extremely urgent matter.
We have armed forces, we have all got experience of training community police officers.
Many Members have been working on the basis of trying to protect their own countries' national interests rather than improving the overall system for Europe.
Mr President, behind the report, which is an honest one, by Mrs Attwooll, which we shall vote for, we see the European fisheries policy. It is not easy to manage because clearly in an open sea, which is immense and without borders, it is not easy to manage fish on the move.
That is not the sort of postal service that we want.
Shame on you Mr Bertinotti!
Furthermore, it was precisely for this reason, and also because I am convinced that what we really need now is urgent and exceptional action, that I spoke today to Commissioner Nielson - just before he left - in my capacity as Chairman of the Committee on Development and Cooperation. I asked him to join us, as soon as he returns, to inform us about how the situation is developing and particularly about the emergency measures which the EU has already taken, and those which we are going to take.
We cannot accept this.
However, it is in relation to the second proposal that there is most concern.
Mr Langen mentioned that a series of Parliament' s demands and points it had to make relating to content were adopted and - as has already been mentioned - we were almost able to meet the Council halfway on even the most contentious point, that of the financing for this multiannual programme for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the Community.
As Mr Patten said, and I would like to thank him for the positions which he defended, the crucial point is China.
Are you not afraid that such penalties might get out of hand and serve to punish not violations of human rights but simple differences of opinion, unpopular opinions or deviations from the dominant European thinking?
It is important that the Commission never loses sight of the fact that the reform process will be a complete waste of time unless it reconnects with the European public.
The appropriations are needed for pilot projects, research, information exchange and also to cultivate more positive attitudes towards the use of renewable energy.
Some of the NGOs would say that the directive as now framed is worse than useless.
I can assure you here today that the Commission, in exercising its risk management functions, will fully take account of the scientific advice of the authority.
Mr Poettering, it is interesting to note that you are in almost as difficult a position as I am, albeit for different reasons, for you are having to defend something that goes against your convictions.
Finally, Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Langen warmly for his report, which, although geared more towards a specific sector, is a valuable contribution.
Mr President, I would like to say a few words in order to highlight two points made in these reports which are of fundamental strategic importance to the way we see the Union.
However, this motion is inadequate as it actually starts from the principle that Angola enjoys rule of law and is only imposing certain restrictions on journalists and restraining them.
As you know, Commissioner, our report argues that the codecision procedure should apply in the case of basic legislation on state aid.
If this is the role that the Commission intends to play over the next five years, we federalists are convinced, we are certain that this is not the right path to take and we shall send for you and judge what the Commission intends to do in this regard.
This is a task which all MEPs, the Council and the Commission must take on during this legislature: the creation, as has been said already, of an area of freedom, security and justice.
The basis is monetary cooperation, which has since been followed up by macro-economic cooperation and cooperation on employment policy.
Thirdly, I should like to address the question of the timetable.
We have also opted for a common and joint development along the road of democracy, cultural diversity and tolerance.
We considered that increasing public confidence by combating everyday urban crime was one of the central tasks of urban regeneration.
This is clearly a problem for all EU coastlines which will require imaginative solutions.
Chechnya has also been one of our main concerns and I will speak briefly on this at the end, in the light of an important conversation which I had this morning with the Council of Europe representative, Mr Álvaro Gil-Robles, on his recent visit to the region.
It was also stipulated that this would be revised in the light of new scientific information on preserving species, of which we hope to see examples in the first six months of this year.
Member States, i.e. national authorities, are responsible for implementing this strand. Finally, strand C organises interregional cooperation between different regions of the Member States or third countries to exchange experience under strands A and B and cooperate in the fields of research and technological development, subject to consultation with the European Commission which is responsible for its implementation.
Report (A5-0108/1999) by Mrs Schroedter, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the communication from the Commission in the field of the Structural Funds and their coordination with the Cohesion Fund: guidelines for programmes in the period 2000-2006 (COM(1999)0344 - C5-0122/1999 - 1999/2127(COS))
Subject: New premises for the OHIM At present the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market (OHIM) is still operating from the same temporary premises, even though its new building was opened in June 1999.
But is Commissioner Vitorino aware, not only of Mr Haider's and the Freedom Party's words, but also of their deeds?
I do not know whether you are a romantic or not, Mr Prodi.
We received a text for consultation which the Council had been working on for a very long time, incidentally with only partial success - I will come to that in a moment.
We must take up a reasoned offensive against radicals on both the right and the left.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
The Commission made an active contribution to the work of the High Level Group on Asylum and Migration, and ultimately, in December, it presented a proposal aimed at establishing a European refugee fund.
It is minimalist on a number of points, especially with regard to the dates of entry into force of far too many provisions and the number of, and conditions for, implementing the derogations.
(The sitting was suspended at 7.50 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
My colleagues' register of interests is complete.
You have tacked a few components together but you have no overall structure.
Mr President, as you will know, Mr van Hulten's report on the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts is necessarily long and, since I want to make a comprehensive reply, particularly on the issues relating to financial management and control, I seek your indulgence.
The European Union will oppose any spurious attempt to use this reform of the Human Rights Commission' s activities to limit its capacity for intervention by restricting its sphere of influence and its ongoing monitoring of all human rights issues at world level.
The Commission' s proposal with which we are dealing today is in two parts.
Finally, it needs to be borne in mind that - whatever happens - the real solution to the problems of comitology for the European Parliament is still to change the procedure for implementing legislation laid down in the Treaties, and gradually to dismantle the committees whose existence represents an anomaly that severely restricts the Commission' s executive power and may prejudice the European Parliament' s legislative powers.
I believe that every one of us, in every country, could improve the way in which we manage our water and could make use of it in a cleaner way.
(Parliament adopted the oral amendment) (Parliament adopted the resolution)
However, experience has taught me that, in politics, modest ambitions are never the key to success!
Furthermore, 90% of businesses active in tourism are small or medium-sized, the very enterprises which form the living cells of our social and economic tissue, which are called upon to tackle the new obstacles and respond positively to the challenges of this global development.
I am aware that there is concern in FYROM and elsewhere at the end of the PHARE programme in these countries and, especially, at the loss of association with the PHARE name.
My second question concerns the whole policy on alcohol.
I can see from your reaction that many of the Members of Parliament have not received the Minutes and clearly you cannot approve Minutes which you have not seen.
She would like to devise these sanctions jointly so as to arrive at a coherent criminal justice system for offences which have particular relevance for the EU.
Although we welcome the determination to create a system of exchanges between successful enterprises, the problems specific to each urban area cannot be dealt with in the same way.
Next, reliable technical inspection must be established like the technical inspection compulsory in France for vehicles more than five years old.
Firstly, I agree on the need to guarantee equal conditions for aid to all Member States and, secondly, on the need for transparency with regard to this aid.
To take first the proposal for the Council regulation, this makes provision for Member States to collect a wider range of data relating to fisheries than required under previous regulations.
When the notes and coins come into circulation after 1 January 2002, everything possible must be done to ensure maximum confidence in the Euro.
Mr President, Commissioner, I have brought you a small gift. Here is a cake of oil sent by someone living on the French island of Noirmoutier who wrote to me as follows: "With every tide, the beach is covered with heavy fuel oil which has leaked out of the Erika.
Towards the end of this year the Commission will submit a report on the differences in excise taxes between Member States.
This is the crux of the matter.
I am aware of the difficulties the Council experienced in finding a compromise.
If we succeed in making progress here, then we will also be ready for the historic task of enlarging the European Union.
If we are to create a culture of law in Europe, then there is no doubt that the law must be applied not only by the Commission, by central bodies, but also by national authorities, by national courts.
There is a large grey area and a great lack of clarity where criminal sanctions are concerned, and it is precisely in this area that the announcements made by the Commission are rather vague.
But it suffered from the war in its vicinity and from the sanctions, as it is still suffering from the sanctions that were rightly imposed on the neighbouring countries.
Under the arrangements contained in the Treaties, the United Kingdom retains its border controls.
We are astonished by the political naivety of people who, with thoughtless words, have bolstered Mr Haider' s position in Austria and made the Union look ridiculous, riding roughshod over Article 7 of the Treaty by announcing unconstitutional measures.
As President Prodi too mentioned when outlining the strategic objectives for the period 2000-2005, boosting the Barcelona process is a priority for the Union, and the INTERREG III initiative will be able to make its contribution to the pursuit of this strategic objective.
My concern is, if I have understood Mr Seixas da Costa correctly on the interesting points he made as regards transparency and the IGC, whether the Portuguese Presidency will take on the commitment to tackle the issue of widening the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference.
A lot of them have not signed up to or not ratified the Convention on the Protection of Financial Interests, and therefore it was clear that something more radical needed to be done.
The production of so-called artificial groundwater is an ecological means of filtering a clean supply of fresh surface water through to the groundwater reserves.
For that and for the letter to the Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria which you mentioned, we expressly respect, acknowledge and support you.
If we are to get a common transport market genuinely up and running, it is important that we should not only have regulations but that these regulations should also, as far as possible, apply to every country.
Reform and renewal are essential for that purpose too.
It is the responsibility of these authorities and governments to allocate the funds as objectively and fairly as possible.
All of these measures are designed to make it more coherent, understandable and flexible.
(The sitting was closed at 8.40 p.m.)
But what would we do if we knew in December that Christmas was in thirty years' time.
This would be a minimum requirement, I believe, on the dawn of the third millennium.
No tanker or freighter fit only for the scrap heap must ever put into any harbour within the European Union again. All those involved, including the transport agent, are responsible for any ensuing damage, and these individuals are to provide satisfactory assurances.
Our opinion is that it is vital to contribute to setting up an administration in Kosovo and that it is by no means absurd to contribute directly to the payment of public employees in this region.
The problem is with Danish nationals or other nationals residing outside Denmark.
Another important area is protection of the groundwater.
It seems to me blindingly self-evident that some action is necessary.
I am the rapporteur for ECHO on the Committee on Budgetary Control, and I shall have a lot of difficulty carrying out my work if the Commission will not give me the necessary information.
It also offers some prospect of conveying a positive picture of European policy.
The incident reinforces the case for a strengthening of European civil protection, along the lines suggested by President Prodi in his recent speech and as suggested by one or two Members today.
In relation to Mrs Lynne's question on interim payments: that is a matter that might very well be addressed by Parliament as it relates to budget issues.
Social protection should be an expression, first and foremost, of national solidarity and it comes first and foremost, exclusively in fact, under the jurisdiction of the nation state.
It is already employed widely in the transport sector.
Everyone accepts that investments in derivatives must be legally limited in order to prevent a harmonised fund losing all its assets due to an investment in high-risk products.
I hope it will underline the importance, when we address the development of a Common Foreign and Security Policy, of looking at the non-military aspects of that policy as well as the military aspects.
The first concerns the product, that is to say the funds.
In my view, it is, therefore, immensely important to exercise extreme vigilance over the water we all drink and, consequently, to study and approve the provisions referred to here.
If civilian targets were targeted and destroyed, killing civilians is illegal by anyone's standards.
Are there any objections to the inclusion of this oral amendment?
We should, above all, not lose sight of this. The impetus given to the European idea by this programme is having an enormous impact, especially on small linguistic areas such as the Netherlands which not only has national potential, but is also relying on support from the programme, mainly from a language point of view.
All this is happening on a daily basis.
However, shifting the tax burden from labour to the use of raw materials and minerals is precisely what we need by way of a lasting contribution.
My comments start from the premise that we are talking about an upright individual in gainful employment.
If we look around, the reality is that the CFSP is in danger of becoming nothing more than talk. Take, for example, Germany' s defence savings.
I really do wonder whether this is an approach of which the green Environment Ministers in my country are aware.
As one might expect, the Polish Foreign Affairs Minister, Mr Bronislaw Geremek, has expressed this concern in more diplomatic terms: "The development of a European defence identity should not be at the expense of NATO' s unity.
In actual fact, there are still certain differences of opinion within the Council over the type of convention, and over certain provisions contained therein.
This needs to be looked into because it is clearly an indication that something is seriously wrong.
The employment strategy has proved that it can function well and social convergence is also necessary, for our social security systems are facing the same challenges, and in an EMU era, social security systems would otherwise threaten to fall prey to social competition.
It has been a useful debate.
It is clear that the Council, for the moment, has not opted for enlarging with deep reforms in place.
That is, of course, where you strike a balance between this principle as a political tool and science.
So, in addition to the efforts to combat counterfeiting, to ensure the sound implementation of the provisions, the planned information campaign will of course play a key role and here we still have serious work to do.
We must show them that we intend to use the next five years to help them join the rich regions by promoting the less favoured regions using reasonable means.
We are not seeking to immerse ourselves in implementing decisions, but it is a democratic safeguard that we should be able to do so on those few occasions when it really would be necessary.
The introduction of water meters is viewed with great suspicion in Ireland where we have had no domestic water charges and hence no meters since 1977.
Natural habitats were destroyed.
The first type will be operations in which European forces are involved within the framework of NATO. The second will be operations involving European forces and directed by them, but using the means and infrastructure of NATO.
Relatively few women, however, are active in scientific disciplines despite the excellent results they achieve in their studies.
In many ways, they share the same interests and the same insights.
I have listened to you very attentively Commissioner, and welcome with open arms the fact that you are intending to go and see for yourself the effects the catastrophe has had in France and in Germany.
Although the Andersson report has gathered some positive proposals, including some that we put forward ourselves, we are still critical of some of the bases for the Commission' s proposal and we still have concerns about the strategy for modernising social protection.
The solution is to take out a derivative which pays off if the NASDAQ or CAC 40 falls.
Schroedter Report (A5-0108/1999)
In its draft guidelines, the Commission acknowledges that these borders require greater attention than they did in the past.
I would like to emphasise, however, that the EU and the rest of the world must not limit their aid to Mozambique to the emergency that we are now discussing.
I would urge him to do so for his answer will determine the way in which we decide to vote on the various proposed amendments we have before us.
Indeed, it is not the first time that we will be debating Kosovo here.
First of all, we must shed some light on this shipwreck.
Mr President, Commissioner, let me say at the outset that my group welcomes this proposal because it makes the basic statistical data for an economic and monetary union directed at stability and real growth more harmonised, directly comparable and more accurate.
But that is his strategy, he instigated this war.
You are expected to ask questions, not necessarily make lengthy statements.
Consumers and traders are still not familiar with the euro and it would be easy for counterfeit money to be passed in supermarkets, bureaux de change and banks and not be noticed straight away.
The Council has already, on various occasions, stated its conviction that the severe measures taken by NATO were both necessary and justified to deal with extremist and irresponsible actions involving clear violations of the United Nations Security Council resolutions.
"He knew what those jubilant crowds did not know but could have learned from books: that the plague bacillus never dies or disappears for good; that it can lie dormant for years and years in furniture and linen-chests; that it bides its time in bedrooms, cellars, trunks, and bookshelves; and that perhaps the day would come when, for the bane and the enlightening of men, it would rouse up its rats again and send them forth to die in a happy city."
Our group is keen to stress the importance of cross-border activity under the INTERREG programme and especially cooperation focusing on areas outside the European Union.
In this respect, I am pleased to see that the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has adopted one of my amendments calling on the Commission to devote a specific chapter in its next report on cohesion to the special case of the most remote regions and, more specifically, to consideration of the impact of the measures shortly to be adopted under new Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
As a result, the European Parliament is faced with an almost impossible task.
Mainstreaming is a long-term commitment and process.
The closure means the direct or indirect loss of more than a thousand jobs and hundreds of families being abandoned to insecurity and sudden poverty.
This is partly the work of human hand, as difficult as it is to demonstrate climate change using calculations.
Never mind that the Commission' s requirement to produce an annual report, set out clearly in the Council resolution, has produced only one "non-paper" , the real problem here is that at the time of rising world poverty this particular horse is climbing uphill and the cart of other EU policies is so heavy that development policy is actually being pulled slowly backwards.
During the 1990s, they were able to show the benefits that could be achieved.
It is far too prescriptive.
I am due to visit FYROM in the second week in March.
On the one hand, we eagerly await the successful outcome of this vote, precisely so that this convention - which, I repeat, already sets minimum rules - is not stripped of all meaning, while on the other hand we are also looking forward to any form of proposal that may arrive from the Commission with a view to definitively putting into effect this minimum Community law.
As rightly said by the rapporteur, both measures are totally and fully justified which is why we have no alternative but to ask for their approval.
This situation is particularly serious in countries such as Portugal where the minimum pensions and pension schemes are barely more than half of the minimum national wage which in turn, is the lowest in the whole of Europe.
Trees have been uprooted, houses are still being demolished and, above all, water supplies have been reduced or refused, especially in East Jerusalem, while the settlements continue and are growing constantly.
The car lobby was unsuccessful today and I am pleased about that.
We are fortunate in having the Gulf Stream.
I should like to comment on the concerns which the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has with regard to the largest of the four Community initiatives, INTERREG III.
Secondly, does he not agree that were the current government, at a national level, to pursue the kind of policies that Mr Haider and the Freedom Party have pursued at regional level, then there clearly would be a breach of Article 6(1) of the Treaty with regard to fundamental freedom and human rights and it would be incumbent upon the Commission to take the necessary action?
What are the Commission's views on incorporating the Charter into the Treaty on European Union?
There is now a weight of public opinion demanding an answer more sophisticated than: "It has not been done before".
Moreover, I would also say that this may also be one of the reasons why there are so few men here today.
The fact is that it is enough to read the manifesto of Mr Haider' s party, the FPÖ, to find nationalist glorification, populism and racial superiority in every chapter.
Therefore, I would urge the Council and the Intergovernmental Conference to introduce the codecision procedure into legislation in this area.
The best way of achieving our environmental objectives is to make the manufacturers our instrument both for collecting the money and for disposing and recycling of the cars.
Report by Olle Schmidt (A5-0025/2000)
But all is not lost.
We, however, second the Council' s decision to give the sanctions a different focus.
In order to do so, the monitoring committees must be opened to include Members of the European Parliament, associations and industrialists concerned by the projects and also civil society.
To explain in a clear and coherent way how the Commission applies, and intends to apply, the precautionary principle in its management of risk and to set out guidelines for its application based on reasoned and coherent principles.
I have, however, taken note, particularly with regard to the most remote regions, Mrs Sudre, Mr Fruteau, and Mr Nogueira Román too, that your observation is that there is still much to do - and this is my third point regarding the policy - in terms of improving employment take-up aspects, the fight against social exclusion, which is particularly serious and intolerable in many of our regions, and the integration of women and young people into the labour market.
Next session of UN Human Rights Commission (continuation)
You rightly raise the concern, also expressed by Mr Wieland, at the possibility of workers disappearing into thin air when their work permits expire, but I think that we would be making this even more likely by bringing in a three month permit.
Stand firm on the demand for mobility, not as a right, as it says here in the report, but as a management tool.
My second criticism follows on from the first.
This is precisely why the European Union is maintaining all its sanctions until Yugoslavia' s behaviour on the international stage reflects the values that we have to defend.
These amendments also fit in with this Parliament's view that social exclusion is a serious issue needing constructive action.
This declaration - which, as I have said, implicates the European Parliament, although no such declaration was put before this Parliament - is a completely unacceptable form of manipulation.
President Wahid needs our support to cope with the difficult situation he is faced with.
Because they have fewer opportunities.
Finally, if you asked me: What if there is no life out there among the stars, what if we are alone? - which is an equally awe-inspiring thought - I would say: Do not you think we have a responsibility too to make our children behave properly, before letting them go out to populate other planets?
Today, in the Europe of unemployment and underemployment, it is urgently necessary to establish broader social protection and to extend the rights of working people, but this demands a different system of economic and social development, which the EU cannot possibly create, because of its nature and character.
With this in mind, we have presented some amendments which I hope Parliament will accept.
The principle also concerns water charging.
. (FR) Mr Decourrière' s report is not without merit: at the end of a clear and comprehensive presentation of the INTERREG initiative and its role in opening up border regions, it comes out in favour of SMEs in paragraph 16.
This is at the heart of the system, and it is this, the setting of political priorities and the focused use of resources, which will enable the political sphere to assert its primacy and to take its responsibilities fully on board.
Its aim of good-quality water for drinking, for wildlife, the environment and economic purposes is right.
Cederschiöld report (A5-0008/2000)
I hope colleagues in this House will support the grounds for discharge for 1997 and, at the same time, that the Commission will push ahead with the reform process which is long overdue.
These failings will result in particular in the late implementation of INTERREG III and therefore in financial losses for the regions in receipt of aid.
We cannot be content with a role backstage. We must be leading protagonists while staying off a collision course with the United States, as Minister Gama said.
We can, and must, take the unique European social model we have and reform it to fit the twenty-first century, a century which is globalising fast.
Therefore, with regard to the amendments proposed by the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, the Commission accepts Amendments Nos 3 and 4. On the other hand, it does not accept Amendments Nos 1 and 2, on the idea of "centre of the debtor' s main interests" .
But trying to take something positive from them, I hope they will spur us on to translate our aspirations about tolerance, fairness and freedom into real and effective policies that will help to transform the lives of all those families and individuals in the European Union who cry out for our understanding and our help and who deserve it, not at some indefinite moment in the future, but here today.
In this regard, too, I think that the 2010 deadline is appropriate.
I agree that such research is needed and I understand this is at present being organised in the United Kingdom.
Of course it is as you say.
Yet we also need to integrate the protection and conservation of biodiversity into this new management of water.
(Parliament gave its assent)
If a civilian task force can, at the same time, intervene before and during a conflict and if we fail to take that step, we are behaving like children who like to play at sending in soldiers, but who are incapable of sending in civilians.
And to what extent has collaboration between you and the relevant Commissioner brought about concrete results and created some sort of framework strategy as to how you and the Commissioner hope this system will prove truly efficient?
Furthermore - since we are in this European Parliament - if we have still not managed the slightest agreement with regard to the package of fiscal measures proposed by the Commission within the European Union, how can we expect to achieve a fiscal agreement on an international level?
An unduly ambitious extension to the agenda at the present time would risk delaying the enlargement process.
To this end, I had submitted an amendment stipulating that legal assistance can only be granted in the event of criminal prosecution instituted by the authorities based on facts which are punishable according to the national law of the petitioning party and the Member State petitioned.
We do not the extent to which far-right commandos were to blame and how far the common people stupid enough to follow these commandos were to blame.
The resolution requires the European Parliament to have increased influence over the Intergovernmental Conference.
Of course it is entirely right that we have to look at action, and the very first speech by Mr Salafranca mentioned two issues apart from Geneva which represent actions, one of which is of course made possible by the generosity of the European Parliament on behalf of the European taxpayer - that is the budget that we are able to spend on human rights activities - about EUR 100 million that is spent through programmes, for which I am responsible, mainly going to non-governmental organisations to promote human rights and to promote democratisation.
The objectives of LIFE: this must have as its main objective sustainable urban development, in close association with the pilot projects carried out under the URBAN initiative, on which I have had the opportunity to speak elsewhere;
As of October 1999 the Commission proposed introducing a legal basis into Directive 70/524/EEC for the replacement of the authorisations.
Although this framework decision is a step in the right direction, it confines itself to increasing criminal sanctions by harmonising substantive criminal law in the form of minimum standards.
We can no longer take care of these matters at the end of a product' s life-cycle. Instead, we should avoid creating so much waste.
. (FR) We are disappointed by the Council' s common position on this proposal for a framework directive.
The first sustainable development projects are unquestionably those.
These are the only positive aspects which I can tell you about at the moment.
I believe that the proposal for a corresponding group at Parliamentary level is very positive and can contribute towards our progress to the next step after approval of the said high-level group.
We must not forget that people working in tourism, especially women, encounter particular problems such as seasonal work, the need to renew contracts from one year to the next, social protection, lack of interest in continuing education, and reduced possibilities for development.
It would be sufficient to determine the composition of the ministries and assemblies by means of a statistical calculation.
.
About 800 000 people appear to have been affected by the floods, about 300 000 are in urgent need of food and other types of humanitarian assistance.
In fact, this initiative was the subject of a very lively debate in committee, and, given that it is a major Commission proposal, which refers to the agreements we reached last year, I consider it admissible.
In many cities in France and England there are now slums, breeding grounds for many sorts of problems.
The funding will provide technical and financial support to enable the two islands to meet the requirements of the Community 'acquis' .
However, Mr Kinnock, your presentation to the Committee on Budgetary Control this coming Tuesday must not just be a one-way street; rather, as Parliamentarians, we want, and must, play a part in this and it also goes against my understanding of politics when I find that yet another press conference has taken place this week, before we have had chance to carefully discuss the submission in the competent Committee on Budgetary Control.
One of those obligations very clearly - and I am at one with Mrs Maes in this - is in the preparation for effective, smooth, calm enlargement that will work to the mutual benefit both of the people of the incoming countries and of the citizens of the current Union.
Mr President, we all want to do something about combating European fraud.
There is neither coherence nor human decency here.
It is not something which more senior officials can deem appropriate for their juniors but think that they are too grown-up or too senior to receive themselves.
The latter include trade, agricultural and fisheries policies.
The Czech Defence Minister, for example, shares this opinion. In the autumn of last year, the latter stated: "Security within Europe is not divisible.
It also contains four calls to the Member States which highlight the need to coordinate actions with the regional authorities and the establishment of measures favourable to tourist-oriented SMEs, particularly in the tax sector and in access to financial instruments. These would encourage the growth of employment in sectors which use labour intensively, such as the tourist sector.
Mr President, we have already noted that there is no report from the Commission, but I intend to discuss three matters in the light of the objectives which the Council presented in its 1997 opinion.
These can be used to distort competition and support questionable projects.
Here again the Commission is increasing its response to the work carried out by and the demands made by Parliament.
This partisan behaviour of our President should be criticised most firmly.
However, we stand by our view that the maximum period of validity for the service provision card should be 12 months.
One such area is tourism which, by its very nature, is very much a national concern.
Consequently, if such systems are to continue to sustain development in the future, in light of the economic and employment changes taking place, as well as the requirements of society, modernisation is absolutely essential.
My third and final point relates to the external activities of the Union in the field of immigration and asylum.
It should have its own heading in the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference, which would mean widening the agenda.
There is a blatant discrepancy here!
The economies are growing, we are enlarging to 25-30 Member States.
That is what I would have preferred, personally.
This is why it is important that water becomes subject to international coordination.
This latter point is of particular importance.
Mr President, unlike several of those who have spoken in today' s debate, I am inclined to endorse the Andersson report, one of the reasons for this being that I can see clear differences between the report and the Commission' s communications.
However, my criticism - and I freely admit this - my rage, is directed exclusively against those who have provoked these reactions and continue to do so, Messrs Schüssel and Haider and their parties, ...
I believe it falls to you, as President-in-Office of the Council, to see to it that the train does not keep rolling on as before, leaving the people behind on the platforms as if they were ignorant as to the content of the treaties.
Thank you, Mr De Rossa.
The Commission is now turning to the programming of 2000 funds.
Ladies and gentlemen, fine words are no longer sufficient.
The Maltese in particular have been very good at surviving in hostile geographical and geopolitical environments.
That is a desirable development in a soundly managed fund.
Secondly, we have to be able to establish a smooth and transparent relationship with NATO. The operations to be carried out in the future will be of three types.
Without agriculture, the rural world will disappear.
This also shows that our committee is in total agreement when it comes to supporting measures which aim to protect species, such as tuna in this case.
I remember Margot Wallström being introduced as Commissioner in the Committee.
Mr President, the place of women in politics is an important matter that is worthy of more than our trying to outbid each other in terms of political correctness.
That means that since the days of mail-coaches and taxis, we have seen a steady decline in the quality of services.
As for us in Parliament, I would like to remind you of the code of conduct between the Commission and Parliament which was signed in May.
As far as Europe is concerned, as far as the European Parliament is concerned, where there is a quota for the involvement of women, it will take 25 years to achieve balanced representation.
The so-called shared liability is very cumbersome and does not stimulate innovation.
We are taking legal advice.
This limited training element has, however, been removed from all introductory courses which have taken place in recent times.
While in theory this may meet the need for concentration and therefore the efficiency of interventions, we cannot help wondering whether the current situation of the Objective 1 zones allows, in practice, a policy of integrated interventions, for which an operational instrument to coordinate the appropriations is necessary.
In my Group, there are undoubtedly different views of Mr Di Pietro' s report.
In the world of new technologies, the main danger remains that access to information will be easier the richer you are.
I must stress once again the Portuguese Presidency' s earnest desire for political agreement to be reached on the scoreboard at the informal Council in Lisbon on 3 and 4 March.
I shall consult the parliamentary services to see how we can find a solution.
Mr President, I want to thank Mr van Hulten for his report and to say that I voted for it.
The European Council in Helsinki had the courage to take certain decisions, and I believe that various aspects of these decisions have already recognised the real value of these opportunities which, as I said at the beginning of my first speech, represent a window of opportunity.
The problem of plastic and PVC will then no longer exist in cars and these products will be replaced by plant-based bioplastic.
Thank you, Mrs Dührkop Dührkop, I should like to assure you of my empathy and sincere respect.
The postal service is also the social service.
We have always condemned ethnic violence, no matter which ethnic group is the perpetrator or the victim.
LIFE is, moreover, the fundamental instrument of the Natura 2000 network in Europe into which the Member States have put a lot, pursuant to Community directives on the habitats of rare and endangered fauna and flora and on migratory birds, and which makes it possible to set up the protection of sites of high biological value in our States.
It is unfortunate that there has been no serious consideration thus far here in Parliament of the issue of internal differentiation within the Union, which will, however, be necessary if the Union is to enlarge as planned.
Madam President, they say, where I come from, 'it' s three times for a Welshman' , and three times, as I think you will discover in the course of that debate, I signified my desire to respond very briefly to what has been an excellent, and on several occasions, a moving debate.
Therefore, the Commission should address the issue once and for all.
I think that contrary to the great process of Economic and Monetary Union, which was an integrated process within the Community structures, today, unfortunately, the common foreign and security policy is entirely an intergovernmental procedure.
What happened to the Postal Services Directive that was passed on 15 December 1997?
They should be accessible to smaller groups, accessible for them to be able to devise, implement and monitor the programmes.
I should just like to make three comments which Commissioner Patten will perhaps see as similar but which, for various reasons, a Member can formulate more openly.
Mr President, having listened to the Council and the Commission today, I just had to look at my agenda.
We can no longer tolerate a situation where the general public has to foot the bill for damage that has often been caused by individuals involved in criminal machinations.
I wish to discuss two matters.
Lastly, I would like to make some observations on the requests for additional information which have been addressed to us.
As honourable Members will see from the document, which will be available to them today, the unprecedented consultations with the staff of the Commission, with this Parliament and with the Council, which have taken place since the adoption of the consultation document in January, have been very productive and resulted in useful refinements.
In my opinion, the Commissioner is quite right.
Nevertheless, there is no doubt that with the election of the new government, positive steps have been taken: negotiations, at least, have resumed. But in the Middle East, there can be no stable and lasting peace if the Palestinians do not have their own state, if they cannot move freely within their own territory.
It is envisaged that this response would link the current phase of emergency through to re-construction within a three to four years time horizon.
The Commission has also entered into commitments to cooperate with Parliament in terms of SEM 2000.
Furthermore, the Member States must give the Commission advance warning with regard to their intentions concerning state aid.
Dare we hope for an Israeli withdrawal from South Lebanon by July 2000, the date promised by Ehud Barak?
Mr Schulz said earlier on that he was not certain about the definition of 'scoreboard' .
As far as I could hear - but I may have missed something - the President-in-Office of the Council did not mention the word "trade" at all.
A further round was held in January this year, starting on 31 January, and a third round is scheduled to start on 23 May in New York.
If the Commissioner asks for support from Parliament, she can in any case count upon the support of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party.
We are working on further block exemptions and guidelines which will all take into account the particular situation of SMEs, and our White Paper on modernisation will also improve the situation of SMEs, first by eliminating the bureaucracy resulting from the present notification system, and secondly, by making Article 81(3) directly applicable, which will benefit SMEs in particular.
We have recently had cause to talk about the 'polluter pays' principle. We should apply this principle rationally and calmly, correctly targeted and without ideology.
These are the three most important aims of the directive.
I actually quoted the text itself, in quotation marks.
The Council adopted on 24 January this year its negotiating directives for a stabilisation and association agreement with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
There are two sides in Angola or rather two armed groups.
We must be tougher on vessels flying flags of convenience, not because they are necessarily bad boats, but because amongst these boats there are many bad ones.
Moreover, the European welfare systems have always played a constructive role in the social and democratic development of each nation.
On Friday of this week we have one single item on the agenda.
Mr President, it has already been said that, after a war which engulfed the country in misery, Mozambique is now facing a natural disaster of terrifying proportions.
Are we ready to pay for those resources?
A political community is reflected in the justice which it hands out.
And finally, in conclusion, our demand regarding the future responsibilities of the European Parliament in the matters we are discussing, competition policy and state aid, in the context of the Intergovernmental Conference.
(Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution)
That leads to a distortion of the internal market because wine is smuggled from France to the United Kingdom.
It appears that these programmes will not cover the whole range of potential data but will be selective, for example, by type of fish stock.
The mood in Belgrade is becoming less predictable by the day.
Once we have done that, our reaction to the ecological disaster is fully justified.
Only, the number of people affected by these programmes has not really dropped.
We shall also vote against the abolition of the facility for the Member States to increase to 35% ...
What is interesting is that the qualifications demanded are rarely defined.
We are therefore quite prepared to support the liberals' amendment to keep aid independent from the donor states' interests, for we need to give industry in Macedonia and the region the best possible opportunities with the aid money available for reconstruction.
The same is happening in China in connection with the Falun Gong movement and with the Catholic and Protestant churches.
(NL) Mr President, I am pleased I have been given the opportunity to make a few introductory remarks at the end of rapporteur Mrs Berger' s speech, after which I will, of course, listen with all due attention to the next speakers. If you allow me, Mr President, I would like to go into the different amendments in more detail at the end of the debate.
Mrs Lucas should do the same.
It is the Cypriot Government, Mr President-in-Office, not the government of Nicosia.
These are two of Vice-President Marinho' s ideas and, I believe, they are seconded by the whole of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
They are supported by appropriate European Union structural fund activities.
The salvation of European democracies is with nation states. Europe' s salvation lies in the cooperation of the nations of Europe.
Cooperation within a catchment basin must be self-evident.
Of course, we cannot violate the founding values of Europe, and in this regard, the Italian Prime Minister stated that these principles are included in a treaty: he mentioned the Treaty of Copenhagen, which I, like you, have never heard of because it does not exist.
Madam President, I can hear a ripple of laughter from the Socialists. I was told that large sections of the Socialist Group were also keen to have this item taken off the agenda, because at the vote in the Conference of Presidents no vote was received from the working group of Members of the Socialist Group responsible for this matter.
The establishment of the positive list is one of the issues set out in the annex with a date attached to it, 2002 in fact.
If peat cannot be classified directly as a renewable, non-fossil energy source, it must form its own class, especially as far as the issue of environmental taxation is concerned.
The amount for the 1994-1999 period was EUR 900 million and will be EUR 700 million for the 2000-2006 period. This represents a drop of 30%!
In the White Paper, you state that the Commission will still issue particular orders which can be used as guidelines, but what will your criteria be for granting such orders one day but not the next?
And there are several reasons why our opinion can only be positive.
Mrs Lynne asks whether the authority will have sufficient teeth.
We must take more account of the guidelines produced at the Kyoto environmental conference.
No one wants an unimpeded subsidy competition in Europe.
It represents the possibility of sustaining a European identity in the twenty-first century, an identity which eschews the echoes of division, of war, of poverty, of opportunity, of poverty dans la realité.
Since the average European family puts its savings in investment funds, the proposals contain provisions on prudent management - and I would like to underline this - prudent management as far as investment policy and risk-spreading are concerned.
We must preserve this law and peace in the European Union if we are to be able to go forth as peacemakers in the world.
I would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his excellent report.
In other words, a social, ecologically-orientated market, a secure currency, guaranteed civil rights internally and representation of common interests externally.
It is one of the steps towards a policy of employment and sustainable development.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, 'Shaping the new Europe' is an ambitious objective both for the Commission and for us all.
It reflects the views and concerns of all EU citizens in the area of food safety and quality.
Quite frankly a hierarchy of oppression has been created.
We were delighted to hear in Nassau that a trade agreement was being reached with South Africa after four years of negotiations.
The first such report was presented to the Council in May 1999, and it referred to certain aspects of policy coordination, notably in the fields of peace building, food safety, fisheries and migration.
We can now travel much more easily than our grandparents could within Spain or even within the Basque Country.
The European Commission' s sixth report presents very valuable conclusions.
Does the Council believe that it is permissible to consolidate future overfishing which violates the originally established TAC of 33 000 metric tonnes per year, given the current evidence for the critical state of anchovy stocks?
Mr Seixas da Costa, I totally agree with you.
There was a good deal of agreement within the committee, apart from on a matter which, too, I hope it will be possible to solve.
It is clear that there is no lack of legislation.
Firstly, it is necessary, in drawing up the legislation, to produce clear and complete rules.
That does not, however, prevent the Member States from cooperating and exchanging ideas in the social sphere.
Here, in addition to the work being done in the group of experts on the Pre-Accession Pact, it is important that it has proved possible to draw up a joint action plan for the fight against organised crime between the European Union and the Russian Federation, a plan which is now being finalised, and to organise meetings of liaison officials from the Member States, in Moscow, and to develop a set of further initiatives.
The Commission has the same opinion of similar amendments to the second proposal.
Goebbels (PSE).
With this, we believe that we are totally in line with what we agreed.
It is of the utmost importance that the European Parliament and the Commission join forces for this IGC.
Madam President, coinciding with this year' s first part-session of the European Parliament, a date has been set, unfortunately for next Thursday, in Texas in America, for the execution of a young 34 year-old man who has been sentenced to death. We shall call him Mr Hicks.
It is clear that the subject of the internal differentiation of the Union will be raised at the IGC.
We confer implementing powers on the Commission, but then it is only a Council or Member State appointed body that can blow the whistle and say no to the Commission and stop the implementing measure.
It would therefore be up to the appropriate democratically accountable government body, local, regional or national - probably under overall EU supervision - to set the service criteria and the financial resources for meeting this particular social purpose.
Even though there will of course be readjustments here, FYROM will continue to show that many of the tasks that are still being dealt with in Brussels today can in future be handled in Skopje, in the country itself.
There were women everywhere.
It is my intention, as it has always been, to work in cooperation with Parliament, to ensure that the results we achieve are the very best results.
It is very helpful.
I am very concerned about certain amendments from Parliament which bring the absolutely basic pillars of the present proposal into question.
With the introduction of a series of codes of conduct the current Commission has begun to develop an explicit ethical framework.
This is unacceptable given the importance of rural development and the consequences for farmers of the fall in prices and aid specified in the reform of the CAP following the Berlin agreements.
Third-country nationals with a permanent right of residence in one Member State do not enjoy the right to freedom of movement within the European Union.
And so the moderate sum of 167 million will stand until 2004.
Consequently, approval of the Treaties by the Community is of major importance, because it illustrates that the Community sets great store by intellectual property rights.
We agree with what you said about the Barcelona process.
Mr President, Commissioner, the aim of developing a coordinated strategy for modernising social protection in the European Union is certainly an admirable one. Just as the launching of a European convergence strategy on employment and labour market policies at the Luxembourg Summit was commendable.
First of all, the affirmation that there is room for a Europe of growth, but a Europe of sustainable growth, that particularly respects the commitments of the European Union at the conferences in Kyoto and Buenos Aires.
The purpose of publishing the White Paper is, after all, to collect comments from businesses as well as from other sources.
The next item is the recommendation for second reading (A5-0027/2000) on the common position adopted by the Council with a view to the adoption of a European Parliament and Council directive on establishing a framework for Community action in the field of water policy (9085/3/1999 - C5-0209/1999 - 1997/0067(COD)) (Rapporteur: Mrs Lienemann).
This dilemma stretches beyond the areas which I have already listed.
I naturally want to know whether the Commissioner is willing to incorporate the idea of equality into environmental policy and programmes.
The adoption of the necessary compensatory measures is a matter for the national authorities, and does not require prior Commission approval.
It is conceivable therefore - I cannot say with absolute certainty at this stage - that at that stage in the budgetary procedure and in the cycle in which Parliament is engaged we may have to - I emphasise very strongly the conditional - we may have to come to Parliament with some conclusions and discuss the possibility of revision.
We are all aware of the extremely important aspect of social and structural cohesion, especially in the sparsely populated rural areas, one of which has been particularly strongly and overwhelmingly represented in the debate this morning.
I apologise to Mr Vitorino for this parliamentary discourtesy. I am sorry.
In this context, we are convinced that we need to move away from the post­colonial model towards to a truly European model of development aid. I say this because we know that, in Europe, development policy has been very much shaped by the policies of certain Member States, in view of the post-colonial concerns of those states.
Commissioner, I want to go back to one of your previous answers. In this you mentioned what I would refer to as the possibilities of protecting the EU Treaty against any risks of deviation and, in particular, the variation of penalties which may be imposed on a Member State, pursuant to Article 7, for the violation of fundamental freedoms.
Subject: Measures to advance gender equality One of the working groups of Commissioners announced by President Prodi has as its objective the promotion of measures to advance gender equality (gender mainstreaming).
After all, it is only 1% of GDP, by comparison with national spending.
Mrs Jackson has focused on the fact that there are 24 new and 20 amending pieces of legislation and asks whether this compounds over-regulation.
An initiative of the FBI drew up the user requirements which form the basis of the current legislation.
Another new theme in the ACP-EU agreement is migration.
Report (A5-0021/2000) by Mrs Frassoni, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission on procedures for implementing the new Council decision of 28 June 1999 - 'Comitology' (1999/468/EC)
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, businesspeople have so far had to live with the fact that two of the key freedoms, namely the free movement of people and services, did not apply to them.
In some countries children had a better chance of basic education and health care twenty years ago than they have today.
We obviously reject all unrealistic demands which affect the European Parliament' s credibility.
Since there is often overlap between the two legal angles and cross-border violations against the Union budget are on the increase - they are also committed by those involved in organised crime - it is unclear as to where the responsibility lies amongst the Member States.
I should like to ask the Minister what precisely he is doing about the situation that is developing in Ethiopia where there is drought, where the crops have failed, and where, in six months' time, we will inevitably be back to the situation as it was some years ago in Ethiopia with famine and people dying in their thousands.
- (PT) Mrs Korhola, as you will understand, I do not at the moment have the information I need to give you a concrete reply.
I am delighted that it is being discussed in Parliament, but I also note the compromises and the omissions in it.
The enhanced contacts between the Joint Assembly and the social partners provided for in the new Convention are another step in the right direction.
Yes or no to an agreement which contains deficiencies.
Mr President, this morning' s debate is very important.
And yet our President is a fine economist.
I beg you to intervene.
I am pleased that this has opened a few matters up in relation to defence policy.
It is there to generate reactions and the White Paper has certainly succeeded in doing that.
It foresees a just and more effective Europe that also recognises its responsibilities beyond its own borders out of solidarity and enlightened self-interest.
I think that you have aged, your face is quite lined.
On behalf of the Commission, Commissioner Patten has taken a number of praiseworthy initiatives in this direction.
We have also voted in favour of the resolution in protest against the detestable politics that Jörg Haider stands for.
Joint resolution on Austria
We have stopped counting the damage and destruction in natural habitats and mountain zones.
Mr President, the Council and, I think, the Portuguese Presidency in particular, are extremely aware of the importance of the problems Mr Gallagher' s question raises and I would like to say that we have always paid the utmost attention to Community policies for the development of rural areas.
However, agreement has also been reached on the possibility of including other issues, and the representative of the northern part of the island, Rauf Denktash, has suggested three new topics: sovereignty, confidence-building measures and the issue of lifting the embargo on products from the north of the island.
The European Parliament has already taken a clear stand on BSE and I think that we should do likewise on all epidemics in animals.
However, I do not support the proposal that domestic water users be charged for water used.
We must hold fast to joint decision-making institutions which embrace the Member States.
In his millennium speech, he dared to raise the fact that it should become clear what the procedure would be for appointing the successor to King Sihanouk in the event of his death.
As the presidency has noted, the Union as a whole is considering its position.
B5-0175/2000 by Mr Bautista Ojeda and others, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, on xenophobia-related incidents in El Ejido (Spain).
The principle of competition must now be universal in its application.
We can take action against this; it is possible.
A second point where we need to focus our attention is the possibility of nepotism and abuse of power within regional and local councils.
You have received a letter of complaint from me about the number of mistakes in this report and in other reports with which I have had dealings recently.
Prevention is better than cure or so the saying goes.
I would urge you to endorse this.
With regard to Parliament's various resolutions on the postal sector, my colleague, Commissioner Bolkestein, has already responded to some of the main points at the hearings which Parliament held last year.
Amendments Nos 4, 11, 12, 13, 28, 30, 32, 37, 42 and 48 concern the phasing-out of heavy metals.
We currently believe that this improvement, which we highlighted in the perspectives in November, may lead to even better results than initially forecast.
The Commission included in its proposal a possibility for vaccination of salmon.
We are breaking new ground and doing so in complex circumstances.
I think that Mrs Lienemann' s proposal is a good basis for further negotiations with the Council.
These are amendments which we believe will lead to transparency and openness, which is very important with a view to making the internal market work.
As you rightly said, the precautionary principle is needed in precisely those areas where, as yet, there is no scientific evidence.
That was the charm of LEADER, and that should please not be lost!
As Swedish Liberals, we see European integration as an opportunity to find solutions to cross-border problems such as the environment, trade, movement across borders, human rights and conflict management.
The principle of specific, exceptional treatment was envisaged in Article 299(2) of the Treaty of Amsterdam in order to deal with such cases.
That is not what Mr Prodi is President of today.
So you can appreciate why I am afraid of a phase of extensive liberalisation, and a package of measures which will entail a new wave of depopulation.
I am convinced that you share my wish that it should be possible to adopt the regulation as soon as possible, especially in view of the fact that there are great expectations in the Member States and in other countries, especially among the applicant States which are now being given the opportunity to participate in LIFE.
I think it will be obvious to everyone that the events in Helsinki at the end of last year and the new era in relations between the European Union and Turkey have created a new backdrop, at Community level, which we cannot ignore when it comes to relations between the two Cypriot communities.
As far as we, the Council presidency, are concerned, we will continue to follow these developments very closely, and we will certainly cooperate with the Secretary-General and his personal representative on this matter.
Thirdly, if we do not stand up to this unnatural alliance, I can assure you that we can forget the European Union' s main objective - enlargement - because, if we were Czechs, Slovenes or Hungarians, what would we say, faced with a neighbour who judges us on racial grounds and does not want us to enter?
It is time we stopped this trend.
We in Parliament have a major role to play in the shaping of governance in Europe.
I talked with farmers whose ewes were aborting their lambs due to drinking the infected water.
The most important parts of Parliament' s Amendments Nos 25 and 73 can therefore be approved in principle.
The post office is democracy.
I wonder if that could be added to the Minutes.
Parliament played a crucial role in Europe's response to the BSE crisis.
We will do all we can to help the process to a successful conclusion and to meet the obligations and challenges that will be created by that outcome.
I come from a country whose southern half is on the Mediterranean and the availability of water historically depends on the whims of an unpredictable climate and a difficult terrain.
After the lucid and closely reasoned explanation of this approach presented by both Mr Amado and Mr Nielson, I would like to note that we are very much looking forward to the proposals, not only by Mr Nielson, but by the entire Commission, in order to make the policy coherent as a whole.
Another important aspect is the improvement of the EU' s trade regime for all least-developed countries, 39 of which are actually in the ACP group.
Financial management and control is obviously a crucial area of reform.
Finally, Mr Prodi' s complacency towards the Austrian Government in the name of an exaggerated sense of protocol (which in no way obliges him to send a message of congratulations) would in itself warrant a vote of no confidence.
Some of these risks were due to an inadequate awareness of the risks inherent in such transportation.
So we are working within this framework and not outside it.
Madam President, we cannot and must not accept the fact that we hear ever more frequently of accidents causing major damage on our roads, but also on our railways and waterways, not solely but at least partly because those involved do not take the transport of dangerous goods seriously enough or because - as a result of ignorance or a lack of training on the part of the drivers or others responsible for the various vehicles - a minor accident has all too often become a major disaster.
We should therefore put this situation right immediately.
There is a possibility, which has not yet been absolutely confirmed, that continuous and direct discussions may take place, with work continuing until September this year.
However, we agreed to this compromise because it was important to us to enable this programme to be launched very soon indeed.
A third aspect of this new model that I would like to emphasise is a policy aimed at achieving our objectives.
Regarding the first proposal on third-country employees, the Commission is prepared to adopt Amendments Nos 2, 11, 12, 15, 16 and 22.
I can therefore fully support the demand to give Parliament unconditional right of access to documents. Otherwise, we cannot carry out our work.
Mr President, during the last EU Financial Perspective from 1994 to 1999, when there were 13 different initiatives in operation, the INTERREG II cross-border programme was an important initiative.
Mr President, I too believe that tourism has a very important role to play, not just in our European regions, but throughout the world, because it is a great asset when it comes to economic and social development.
The Commission kept to the actual text of Article 10 of the Structural Funds regulations, which stipulates that the aim of these guidelines is to provide Member States with broad, indicative guidelines on relevant and agreed Community policies.
My Padanian electorate who, thanks to Mr Prodi, have already paid what in Italy is known as the European tax - repaid only in part - have absolutely no intention, thanks once again to Mr Prodi, of paying another tax for someone else.
The general lines of the implemented economic policy, the Stability Pact and the strict convergence programmes, which are a constant menace to employment and which promote employability and the flexibilisation of labour relations, and the organisation of labour, along with Commission and the ESF decisions relating to salary and wage restraint, and the insistence upon austere budgetary discipline and upon achieving much-vaunted monetary stability at all costs, leave no doubt about the new strategy' s objectives and aspirations.
They also had strong repercussions in the developing countries.
I look forward to Parliament' s own views on these amendments and will take careful note if you believe that such an approach is the best way forward.
Reconciliation with your neighbours was, and still is, a basic objective which you have defended with vigour and perseverance.
Mr President, the Council wishes to point out that Turkey is a signatory to the Convention on Nuclear Safety, the objectives of which should allay the fears expressed by Mr Souladakis.
I believe that very little has been achieved in these three fields.
I have no doubt, and I am sure that you have no doubt, that this is a major new contribution on his part to the fight against racism and intolerance.
In a service which is theoretically liberalised, free competition may disappear as a result of the concentration of the service amongst large companies abusing their dominant position, agreements between companies and other similar circumstances.
The European Commission believes that this initiative to combat discrimination will help to increase the level of employment of people with special needs and, in the end, to promote the freedom of movement of these persons.
Mr President, Commissioner, we have a basically positive view of the Commission' s White Paper on competition, particularly as regards the abolition of the system of notification and authorisation, but we are also puzzled by several things.
I signed a letter yesterday afternoon, in the meeting of the Bureau of Parliament, in which the assistants were informed of this.
What I think is crucial is that henceforth the statistical data will be more reliable and comparable.
In recent years, climate change has compelled Mediterranean countries to face serious problems of flooding or lack of rain.
I would therefore ask you, Commissioner, to help me in my task as a new Member.
We have a de minimis notice which contains a declaration that since SMEs are not involved in market dominance they are not normally subject to the strict prohibition under Article 81(1).
Without deregulation we will not make any headway with a reasonable transport policy.
It is worth stressing that both Parliament and the Commission must put forward specific policies.
Furthermore, on the subject of crossing the external borders of Member States, which is a central issue regarding the free movement of persons, I shall, in the next few days, be presenting a proposal for a regulation updating the list of third countries whose nationals are required to hold visas for crossing the external borders.
A pilot programme was called for to bridge the gap.
On the other hand, the decision to delay the second round of talks, initiated in Shepherdstown by the Syrian Arab Republic, is undoubtedly significant, but I am convinced that the hopes which were raised on 3 January in that town will not be dashed.
Another important point of discussion is the standardisation of water quality.
I believe it will have very positive and noticeable effects on the environment.
I believe that since we have gone that far and we are continuing along that path, which is the route of creating a collective procedure for regulating this type of legal standard in the European Union, we should bear in mind that it should not become the allegorical figure of the guillotine.
In 1998, we had 55 murders.
If you do not, we must reserve the right to refer this report back to committee and then negotiate this sensitive point with you, exactly as we did with the seed directive. I should point out that the text which we have now worked out is a valid compromise, both for your legal service and ours.
I am glad that LEADER+ is to remain true to this underlying concept.
Not only are they countries which the European Union needs, but they are also countries which are fully qualified to operate within the Union and are already considered capable of participating in economic and monetary union.
. The joint United Nations programme on AIDS estimated that by the end of 1998, there was a total of 33.4 million people in the world living with the HIV infection.
The Labour Government' s record in Britain is also a proud one.
Often policies are more determined by the instruments available, than by policy objectives and clearly-defined priorities.
The next item is the statement by the High Representative for Common Foreign and Security Policy.
But I am also told that they were informed verbally of this decision by the Committee of Chairmen of Groups last Thursday, so they were fully aware of the decision.
I shall now, therefore, put this proposal for an amendment to the agenda to the vote.
This procedure will be applied, not only in cases of corruption involving EDF money, but also more widely in any country where the EC is financially involved and where corruption constitutes an obstacle to development.
Another point is that waste should not be incinerated or crushed, not only in the case of lead, cadmium and mercury, but also in the case of waste which contains PVC.
Other European countries, on the other hand, do not accept confession as sufficient proof of guilt.
I would stress that the whole of the CFP must be revised, particularly the part on the protection of fish stocks.
But all exhibitions are in fact looked at first by the so-called Comart committee.
Mr President, it is particularly pleasing for me to make my first speech in the European Parliament on what is regarded as the most important issue within that part of the United Kingdom that I represent in this Parliament, namely Wales.
This is why it is important to prevent waste materials.
As far as the second proposal is concerned, the Commission appreciates the wish that it should be clear what is meant by someone who is self-employed and would therefore like to resolve this issue in the amended proposal.
Over time, as I said a moment ago, not only will the profile of the authority be raised but its expertise, its moral authority will be increased and enhanced over a period of time so that its views are accepted and not challenged.
I did not defend attacks on civilians.
The new technologies and logistics rather than the process of postal liberalisation are the most important factors impacting on employment.
What we need is a completely legally binding objective for OSPAR.
Naturally any dialogue as complex as the one on human rights is going to be a long-term process, but I wish I could point to more real gains.
In particular, if we take the issue of competition and services of general interest, where a Member State defines a mission of public service, it is important to quantify the costs for discharging that mission and state aids that compensate for those costs are certainly not a violation of competition.
He should never have arrived in Spain, where he mugged a woman at knifepoint and yet was immediately released by the Spanish authorities.
You addressed plenary in Strasbourg nearly six years ago, in March 1994, and many of us, who were already European Members of Parliament at that time, still have a vivid recollection of your speech.
Mozambique is, of course, one of the poorest countries in the world, but one of Africa' s great success stories with its work on economic growth, on poverty reduction, on democracy in spite, of course, of massive debt pressures.
Given Poland' s rather critical stance, this question is all the more pressing.
For example, we have seen the success of the Leader I and Leader II schemes in Ireland in terms of the jobs which have been created through the administration of these programmes in rural parts of Ireland and within Europe.
It is also an economic disaster for all the people who make their living from the sea and from tourism, fishermen, oyster farmers, shellfish farmers, people who make a living from the salt marshes, shopkeepers, etc.
The Community initiative means community involvement.
That would allow for subsidiarity on a cost policy for water charges, with each Member States drawing up its own scheme, so long as the principles of this directive on incentives for sustainable and efficient use of water are fully protected.
Regarding the future accession of countries such as East Timor to the Lomé Convention, I can only repeat what I recently said to the European Parliament' s Committee on Development and Cooperation, namely, that the door is open.
I am opposed to this, unlike the majority of this House and indeed the majority of my own group, because I believe that, in competition policy terms, the directly applicable exception system is in every sense inferior to a system of prohibition unless certain conditions are met, and I believe there is a threat of renationalisation.
That is why we opposed concentrating heavily on large networks and network structures, because we want to promote the small and medium-sized entities and activities performed by individuals; because we want to see thousands of flowers bloom.
Because European car manufactures have been operating here for many, many more decades than companies from Japan, Korea and elsewhere, that would be a much greater burden on the older European companies and a competitive gift to their competitors from elsewhere.
But I would be obliged if Mr Bolkestein would just listen for a minute, which I think he cannot do at the same time as talking to Mrs Randzio-Plath.
Now I do not believe that protectionism and regulation is the way of defending Europe' s culture, but I do believe in lending a helping hand when we can.
This morning there were seven helicopters and of course those helicopters are only working in the Gaza region.
Mr Haider has demonstrated, over the past years by both words and deeds, that he deserves to be excluded from normal democratic discourse.
These risks involve a correction in the US economy and the future trend in oil prices and in long-term EU interest rates.
We must ensure that nothing can enter the food chain or the animal compound feed to allow what we have experienced in the past to happen again in the future.
Whatever one may think about the topic of debate, it is evident that it is an important one.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur.
There is no room for amendments.
In Nassau, we had two interesting debates on East Timor and Cuba.
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposed directive on end-of-life vehicles before us today aims firstly to guarantee a high level of environmental protection in the Union, but also to safeguard the proper operation of the internal market in this sector.
These are examples of the fishery sector facing severe problems due to over-exploitation.
I am aware of the problems but I think that these could have been clarified by means of one single change in the text.
The Commission is new and has to be given time, but the absence of such a survey suggests that there are powerful tensions within the Commission.
The committee and the rapporteur have incorporated nine of the eleven amendments that we presented, and these centred precisely on the rights of the defence.
It is therefore political by nature.
Needless to say, this accords science a great deal of power.
First allow me to point out, Commissioner Byrne, that the European Parliament has no right of legislative initiative.
The various framework programmes have enabled not only high quality scientific work to take place but also innovative cooperation between researchers in various Member States.
This is a sign of hope, the hope that it possible to act differently even in Serbia.
One way to achieve this is to have total transparency as far as food labelling is concerned.
This is an important development which must be supported as it is the future of the EU which is at stake.
If the representatives of the Council of Ministers take an equally constructive approach, then I have no doubt that together we shall find an even better solution to the problem of water protection in Europe under the conciliation procedure.
I wonder if you are now in a position to confirm to Parliament that the Quaestors have agreed in principle that the register should be published on the Internet and, if so, whether you will personally set them a deadline - perhaps 1 April - for doing so.
I welcome the Commission initiatives now and in the past to support our small and medium-sized enterprises and I would like to congratulate our Portuguese Presidency for its initiative on having a charter for micro-businesses.
Mr Kinnock has also devoted some fine-sounding phrases to this subject but, at the same time, it is entirely unclear, at this moment when we have to make a decision, what, for example, happens with whistle-blowers who want to get something off their chest and cannot do this internally but who want to address the outside world - the press or Parliament.
Through the Stability Pact, we have taken major steps which place us under an obligation.
Mr Alavanos, if an action of this kind should be brought against NATO and if this action were to be brought against Mr Javier Solana personally, we would have to bear in mind that Mr Javier Solana held one post at that time and is holding a different one today.
They are just as prepared to take on board the fact that Austria will go from being a revered country to a reviled one, as they are its threatened isolation and thus to some extent that of its citizens.
I am grateful to the authorities in Macedonia for their assistance in recent weeks in helping to cope with the considerable difficulties with the power supply in Kosovo.
However, I do not consider it would be appropriate to do this before all Member States have approved Commissioner Monti' s proposal for minimum taxes on capital.
In our opinion, the Union' s economy is reactivating but we still have idle production capacity, not only in terms of physical capital but also new sources of jobs.
I am sure that this study - if carried out objectively, with knowledge of the financial markets and their mechanisms on an international level - will show that it is neither suitable nor possible, not only in terms of its application, but also as a means of achieving the proposed objectives.
Mrs Rothe, I would put it this way: I am convinced that there has been a distinct improvement in the framework conditions for reaching agreements of this kind.
Thank you, Mr Murphy.
And this is the result.
I believe it would truly be preferable to secure a peaceful resolution to the problems in Cyprus before admitting this country to the European Union.
This is the type of mechanism we are continually subjected to when playing the game of European integration with the Brussels institutions.
It is against just such a background that more and more people are calling for ...
I should like us to take a leading role in this work.
And by way of reaffirming this once again, I have introduced an amendment - gratifyingly with the support of a large number of Members - and I would be very pleased if Parliament would endorse my proposed amendment tomorrow.
It has now reached the point where the Pentagon has prohibited American forces from returning to northern Mitrovica.
In the past couple of months, we have witnessed a great deal of lobbying in Belgium.
Finally, I want to say, as Commissioner Patten said when he drew the previous debate to a close, that the ideal police officer would be a black grandmother.
I think that it manages, through a series of clever devices, to carefully avoid addressing the central issue, i.e. the final status of Kosovo.
The strongest regional centres also continue to grow faster than the general European average, whereas many southern European and northern areas are developing considerably more slowly.
I certainly appreciate that.
I do not wish to call the distribution of competences between the Commission and Parliament into question.
We are talking about deeds by the Freedom Party and Mr Haider.
This is all too familiar in many of our urban areas.
Fifthly, with the pending enlargement, I wonder whether the candidate counties will be able to play our game.
I believe that at the present stage in the European Union' s development, it would be appropriate to bring together the fundamental rights in force at European Union level in a charter, so as to make them as visible and accessible as possible to our citizens.
If it chooses the second approach, it must be aware that this presents risks and that it will weaken the basis on which the area of freedom, security and justice is built.
Have the lessons not been learnt?
The total lack of progress in European citizenship and the political rights of all European residents is to be regretted.
Which is why the environmental aspect, which is becoming a matter of urgency, must be taken into account in all development projects at all costs.
By way of paradox, I could say that it would be best if as little as possible was said about this report, for the clearer we make it that only very small steps are being taken, the more the world of crime will gloat and the more the acute imbalance between organised crime and the desperate lack of judicial cooperation will become obvious.
I think there are some gaps in what they have put forward.
However, if we do, this will not be solely in response or as a reaction to an economic situation which is sufficiently serious that the fourteen governments of the Union must mobilise together to give their response. We will also do this with regard for the future in general.
Whether we want it or not, since Parliament itself is going to extinguish the only spotlight capable of shedding a little light on the debates, the venue for decisions is now going to move to the 15 Member States of the Union.
The first and most serious criticism concerns the Commission' s propensity for rather grandiloquent self-satisfaction with regard to the European Union and for a cursory and even condescending view of our partners.
Without even mentioning the jobs in related sectors, European public postal services today employ one and a half million operatives whose futures are clearly threatened by the spectre of radical, untrammelled liberalisation.
This has everything to do with the difference of opinion which exists among various countries within the Union regarding development cooperation.
Mr President, committee amendments and political group amendments may be tabled in plenary, but not amendments from individual Members.
We are concerned, therefore, as others have said, at the number of amendments which seek to exclude even further some of society' s most excluded, by aiming for a very narrow definition of "refugee".
I think what we need is, at European level, to come up with exact definitions of fraud and irregularity as quickly as possible.
Mr President, we are now taking a stance on an important issue, an international agreement, which may influence the prospects for prosperity of many Member States.
Mr President, the President of the Commission was not being quite honest when he talked last week about the Intergovernmental Conference.
The debate is closed.
However, we did not want to do this because we wish to send a clear political signal to the governments and the candidate countries that we want this reform to take place, precisely in order to facilitate enlargement.
I would ask them the following questions: does your policy seek to marginalise people?
A proposal has been drafted for a directive to amend the directive on the working time of non-consultant hospital doctors.
The Minutes of yesterday' s sitting have been distributed.
I myself, Commissioner, am a product of quotas. I do not believe that any of the MEPs will be able to prove that I am any less competent as a result.
On the availability of the studies, - a point raised by Mr Staes and others - copies of each of the studies were handed to Parliament in September 1999.
The common position has weakened the stand taken by Parliament at first reading.
It is a question of the continuity of the ownership of the acquisitions, since private law associations may disappear or resell acquisitions.
Supporting only the competitiveness of companies will never be able to compensate for the envisaged cohesion between economic and social development, simply because there is no basis for a self-supporting upturn in these Objective 1 Regions.
I await with interest developments in Cuba.
Moreover, it is important to uphold the concept that it is not possible to make a surface categorisation of entire fishing sections as more environmentally friendly: in reality, in some cases, small-scale fishing has less of an impact on the environment and natural resources.
The critical thing is to balance universality and affordability.
During the protracted interinstitutional negotiations - which saw Parliament actively involved, thanks to the work of the rapporteur, Adelaide Aglietta - it was understood that the European Parliament and Commission would conclude an interinstitutional agreement on the procedures for implementing certain aspects of the new decision. On the one hand, certain points which the Council did not intend to incorporate into the decision were to be made explicit and, on the other, the system for providing information about implementing measures and monitoring them was to be organised more precisely.
I have two or three points to make in this respect.
That seems to me to be rather too long.
Turning to judicial cooperation, in addition to an initiative on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations, I sincerely hope that it will be possible to present to the Council a proposal for minimum standards ensuring an appropriate level of legal aid in cross-border proceedings.
Madam President, although some of the aims of the Tobin tax are fairly worthy of support, introducing the tax exclusively within the territory of the European Union, as the first area of the world to do so, would sound the death knell for the European currency markets.
This was in contrast to the majority opinion held in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
The presidency will also present to the Chinese authorities a list of individual cases on which it intends to express its serious concern.
We need to get into that conciliation position.
Nevertheless, given that the idea of solidarity is central to the process of European construction, this directive must take into account the fact that water resources should be seen as a factor in social cohesion.
The refusal of our government, down through the years, to acknowledge our complicity in the horrors of the Second World War, together with their refusal to properly compensate the Jewish victims and those forced into hard labour, have done a great deal to bolster this negative image.
Since 1995, following a concerted international effort between the main donor states, involving in particular a reflection paper produced by the OECD' s Development Assistance Committee, it has been possible to establish some important objectives by way of guidelines for development policies, both at national and international level.
This is particularly important with regard to the possibility of using evidence that is obtained in court.
We have arrived at the final question.
Second, there are similar issues related to the establishment of a multiannual programme for tourism.
The Commission cannot therefore be relieved of direct responsibility or the task of carrying out inspections under EQUAL either.
It should also be much easier to sack inefficient and incompetent employees.
We urge you to take the opportunity to establish the real staffing needs of the Commission based on the essential activities for which it is responsible.
I also can partly accept the part of Amendment No 6 saying that Directive 93/53 should be amended as a result of scientific and technical evidence.
Appropriate messages about the health effects of AIDS must be delivered to primary school children by teachers who are comfortable with the information that they are trying to communicate.
He has talked extensively about the new Lomé Convention, although this is not really the topic of this morning' s meeting.
We are pleased that all the rural areas of the Union may be involved in LEADER+, but we believe that it is necessary to concentrate Community resources in the less-favoured regions in order to facilitate the process of socio-economic cohesion within the Union, and that state governments should not divert these resources towards objectives other than cohesion.
I agree with the Commissioner that it is time for the European political sphere - the entire European political sphere - to represent women and men on an equal footing, and for decisive action to be taken in this matter.
The Millennium Youth Park project is helping to get young people re-engaged in regenerating their own community and in addition to support for small businesses and social policy we are beginning to see a turnaround of a very deprived urban community.
Mr President, we debated the framework directive on water this week, and the disaster in Romania has demonstrated once again how very seriously we need to take the protection of water.
The goal is, after all, to provide the judicial bodies - magistrates, in the first place, but also the citizens involved - with the instruments to fight crime without prejudice to the fundamental guarantees of defence and the general principles of human rights.
The article was carefully crafted in Council in very lengthy discussions, in order to ensure that intelligence activities would remain effective and that criminal investigations will be covered.
We are nonetheless aware that we are concerned here with a sharing of powers between the Member States and the Community. At the same time, we appreciate the fact that the WIPO treaties are a significant step forward in the direction of guaranteeing the rights of distributors and practising artists.
The European Parliament has delivered an opinion on the Commission guidelines for the INTERREG Community Initiative concerning cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation.
It therefore proved necessary, in the context of establishing the internal market, to adopt some measures intended to ensure better risk prevention.
All those aspects should be part of a rationale, a discourse and a contribution which the European Union should bring to human rights.
Then we will have played the role which is commensurate with our participation and our contribution.
In spite of everything, all this represents only one of many kinds of highly pernicious action perpetrated by Mr Milosevic on Yugoslavian society, and the European Union is of course inevitably concerned about this situation.
Like Mr Radwan, I am glad that Commissioner Monti is here rather than Commissioner Bolkestein because I believe that he can explain to us certain aspects relating to competition.
On the subject of human rights, I have received two proposals for additions: one from the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party for an item entitled 'Cambodia' and the other from the Group of the Greens, for an item entitled 'Pinochet' .
Surely thousands of people killed, thousands wounded and tens of thousands on the run is enough.
Mr Tajani will accept that it is a little difficult to understand the relationship between his intervention and the points of order, but I understand his political meaning.
The partnership is here to stay and the way is clear for it to be modernised.
When it comes to the IGC, she is one of what the French call "les pures et dures" : no compromise, no deals with the other institutions; we would rather see the whole thing blocked than compromise our positions.
Free trade and the constant worship of globalisation are now the dominant ideology or, rather, the big mistake of our fin de siècle. This ideology is as dangerous as the former ideology of the dictatorship of the proletariat in the corridors of the Kremlin or, before that, the certainty, elevated to the status of a dogma, that the earth was flat.
In this way, Europe would truly belong to the citizens and the Union would acquire an entirely new quality of democratic legitimacy.
These areas of our cities are often home to single-parent families, elderly people who receive a pension and no longer carry out productive activity, and families facing difficulties; sometimes they are families which have broken down and which are excluded from mainstream society.
This is a very special situation with a degree of inter-ethnic tension which fortunately is not matched with such severity in others parts of Kosovo.
But the FVO is in quite a different situation from the Food Safety Authority.
As I said in my remarks, I felt when I was speaking to some of them that they did not know whether to laugh or to cry and it is a reminder to all of us of the tests we have set ourselves and the tests which it is imperative that we meet over the coming months and years and in that context the High Representative' s remarks today were extremely encouraging.
It will become more difficult once we see the TSE proposal, Mr Byrne.
Such communities rely for their survival on having local facilities, such as a school, a post office and a shop.
It is worth pointing out once more that this compromise will require the unanimous support of the Council, in accordance with Article 190, and the assent of this Parliament, to which it falls to approve this statute.
Mr President, all over the world work is being done to resolve long-standing conflicts and bring together communities divided by history and by old tribal enmities and hatreds.
Thank you, Commissioner.
Indeed, what right do we have to demand of developing countries that they give their minorities a voice, that they protect their valuable natural areas and that they respect human rights, if it transpires that we are unable to meet these demands in our own countries?
After years of 'good and loyal service' it is still the main symbol of efforts by the European Union to promote development and improve the lot of the poorest countries.
Since then, Community VAT fraud and distortions in the calculation of GDP, the taxable basis for the fourth resource, have had a perceptible effect on the yield and justice of Community resources.
An objective assessment of the facts is not easy at this stage.
This goes against the fundamental principle of non-discrimination enshrined in the founding treaties of this Union.
I commend to you the arguments set out in the letter from the Legal Affairs Committee which sets out the position, in my view, with precision, clarity and commendable brevity.
In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, it is the Member States themselves which devise their own social security systems.
Here too, Mr Nielson mentioned another good example regarding the new Lomé Convention.
It is preferable for Member States to take measures to stimulate employment themselves.
The convention, as you will be aware, also covers the prevention of accidents which have radiological effects and the limitation of such effects when incidents of this kind occur.
While we all know that for many people in China there has been a real long-term improvement in their economic prospects and their social and economic liberties, there is a dark side to the picture as well.
And we are ready to return to the issue at the EU-Russia Ministerial Troika in Lisbon on 2 March, if we need to do so.
We support the Council and we believe that it is our right and our obligation to appeal to the Austrian people to seriously reconsider this completely crazy option.
Report (A5-0078/1999) by Mr Rapkay, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the European Commission' s XXVIIIth Report on Competition Policy (1998) (SEC(1999)0743 - C5-0121/1999 - 1999/2124(COS))
(The sitting was closed at 11.50 p.m.)
As far as Mr Papayannakis' question is concerned, in the 1999 Action Plan for Employment, the Commission proposed certain recommendations for Greece with a view to improving the efficiency of the Action Plan for Employment.
Even today, we do not have definite answers regarding the monitoring of the nuclear power stations in the eastern republics.
As a matter of fact I think that I am right in saying that we all hope that these conditions of a serious and persistent breach of human rights and of democracy are never fulfilled, either in Austria or in any other Member State.
Thus it is that legal cooperation and cooperation on criminal matters must also strictly respect fundamental rights, principles which lie at very root of our culture and our civilisation: I am thinking of fair trials, and more particularly of the rights of the defence, of the impartiality and integrity of judges, of the length of legal proceedings, for which my country, Italy, unfortunately has the worst record in terms of the number of sentences handed down, of the cases pending before the European Court of Human Rights.
Mr President, Commissioner, when we compare the frequency with which storms occur in other parts of the world with our own situation, we see that Europe gets off relatively lightly.
The Structural Funds have played a key role in the development both of urban and rural parts of peripheral countries, mainly through the upgrading of roads, water treatment and related transport networks.
Here, Mrs Lienemann, Mr President, we are putting forward here a practical proposal, a common sense proposal, easy to implement, likely to limit local conflicts and to vindicate the proper use of public monies, before increasing the LIFE budget line by as much as 40%!
Similarly, it cannot be right for just a few Member States willing to provide help to bear the entire burden of refugee misery on our continent.
In my opinion, this is mainly down to the wrangling between the two major groups within our Committee on Budgetary Control.
There is reasonable hope that a basis for a peace agreement can be built in the near future. I also hope that progress in the Syrian track will pave the way for an early resumption of Lebanese/Israeli talks which could then advance in parallel towards an overall deal on Israel's relations with its northern neighbours.
Third point: interregional cooperation, the importance of strand C. The Commission shares the observations made by this House regarding the importance of strand C, interregional cooperation.
I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, and I would personally like to welcome him and the Portuguese Presidency.
Mr President, Mr Solana, we are very uneasy about replying to you because, in our view, you are responsible for an area that does not really exist.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is a formal commitment, not just words on paper.
Most people, however, would like to live in the area in which they were born and raised, if they were given the chance to, in other words, if there was work there.
However, one aspect of any action with regard to criminal procedures must not be forgotten - the right of defence.
I would particularly like to draw your attention to Amendment No 5 at this point, which clearly emphasises that it is only possible, and permissible, to use the funds from the special financial aid to finance those Kosovan budgetary requirements arising from public or semi-public, communal and other authorities and institutions, which are controlled either directly or indirectly by UNMIK.
The Commission considers that the Convention responsible for drawing up the Charter of Fundamental Rights must respect the mandate given by the Cologne European Council.
From our point of view, it satisfies the fundamental interests of Parliament.
It would be as if the deliveryman had to pay a copyright fee whenever he carried a book to be read by the purchaser.
He has done a great deal of work on behalf of Parliament in producing a wide-ranging consensus on what is, by any definition, a thorny issue, not just in this Parliament but in virtually every Member State.
Sweden has now had sufficient time - since its accession to the Union - to adapt its policies to a situation where such import restrictions do not exist.
I believe that globalisation has helped many countries which, so far, have been on the sideline of the world trade streams to participate in these and be incorporated into the world trade system and, as far as I am aware, no country has ever been worse off by participating in international trade.
Also, it is a good thing that we should clearly lay the burden of responsibility with the manufacturer.
We feel that the Funds are a necessary but insufficient condition for achieving economic and social cohesion.
Ladies and gentlemen, the first few months of the new millennium have been marked by two important events: the first was the election of the President of Finland, Mrs Halïnen.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE- Own resources
Is it true that the US Government is disputing most of the provisions of the current draft and is even threatening to appeal to the World Trade Organisation (for infringement of Article XI of the GATT and Article 2(2) of the Agreement on technical obstacles to trade) if it is adopted?
I have decided, in the end, that the most remote regions, to which I attach particular importance, will be given special priority in the context of the transnational strand of INTERREG, with a cooperation strategy which will aim at improving their links with their neighbours and other Member State regions.
As I have already said on a number of occasions, I am in favour - the Commission is in favour - of drawing up a charter which would reflect, on the broadest basis possible and as part of a dynamic process, the common constitutional traditions of the Member States and the general principles of Community law, rather than being a mere statement of the lowest common denominator.
We should seize that opportunity, for the citizen keeps asking, why do we have Europe?
If we dismantle the public service, this would be very serious, and we wish to know what are the Commission' s intentions.
The current situation in Kosovo, which is now ethnically cleansed of Serbs and Roma, speaks for itself.
On the contrary, it will allow the interests of all concerned to be highlighted as and when Cyprus joins the European Union and prepares for a turning point in its history.
Society is surrendering itself to the economy.
If we are to ensure that we defeat the fear-mongers amongst us - those seeking power on the backs of anxious citizens - then we must seriously address the question of how we can live together and how we can dismantle the negative stereotypes that we have of each other, both within the present European Union and among those who seek to join us and, indeed, among those in other parts of Europe and the world who want to come and live and work in Europe.
I must respond also to the fact, of course, that there were references during the debate - and I use some of the words employed - to the ambiguity, the complacency and the fragility of the Commission' s opinion.
With such a philosophy it would no longer be necessary to organise elections or administrative competitions.
The directive affords a European framework, also to Member States who already have systems in place and who wish to continue to use these.
It is not right that peat should be judged according to the same criteria as, for example, coal.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, people used to be summoned to demonstrations by letter or telegram; nowadays this is done by e-mail and via websites!
Mr President, I warmly recommend a vote in favour of the Dimitrakopoulos/Leinen resolution, which clearly expresses both our disappointment at the inadequacy of the agenda and our wish that the Intergovernmental Conference should take place as soon as possible.
We are going to have one in Abuja in West Africa too.
The difficulties are once again being allowed to persist, to the detriment of the regions concerned.
In the meantime, let us support this first step.
This is in particular the case for Amendments Nos 3 and 5.
The nature of the EU has not changed.
Yet it is not enough to regret the situation.
But there is a crass contradiction between fighting poverty and the cuts in development aid appropriations in many Member States and in the EU.
The purpose of the framework decision is to supplement the provisions of the International Convention for the Suppression of Counterfeiting Currency of 20 April 1929 and to facilitate its application by the Member States.
Are we naively to grant 'freelance' enterprises the right to operate selectively and therefore circumvent the weight limit very easily since the content of letters cannot, of course, be checked?
Of course I can go back and see whether we can find the necessary information.
Although the negotiation sessions which will take place throughout the year between ministers and the European Council will not be open to the media, I am committed, as I must be at this stage, to ensuring this transparency and reporting in the most appropriate arenas on these negotiations and the Commission' s viewpoint.
We need to make it much easier to prosecute officials who are guilty of fraud and corruption.
Many of us of here are very optimistic about the next six months.
Mr President, Commissioner Patten, the recent peace talks begun in the USA between Israel and Syria mark a turning point in the history of the Middle East. It has taken fifty years to reach this point, which will involve some particularly difficult negotiations.
On the face of it these two proposals appear to be implementing certain procedural changes to facilitate freedom of movement across Europe and to give effect to the recent court cases Mrs Berger referred to in her opening remarks.
The second reading of the framework directive on the issue of water is most timely; the shocking news of the environmental catastrophe in Romania must feature in today' s discussions and also more generally when we ponder the environmental dimension of Union enlargement.
Projects should also specifically address this problem.
The development of renewable energy sources is a partial solution to ending the Union' s dependence on imported energy.
Another example is cacao.
They have also four panels dealing with tropical tuna, with temperate tuna, the north and temperate tuna south and other species.
Mr President, I am very pleased to take this first available opportunity of outlining to Parliament the main lines of the Commission's White Paper on food safety, adopted on Wednesday last, 12 January, in association with my colleague, Mr Liikanen.
I would urge those who are still very hesitant in this respect to consider whether now is not the time to make this connection and perhaps pluck up the courage we need to make suitable progress in matters of fundamental rights.
In any case, this emerges from the favourable schedule we decided upon.
On behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, I must highlight our concerns about the shipwreck of the tanker Erika.
A total of 48 amendments have been tabled.
There are a number of questions of principle which are demanding solutions, because the point of departure is, of course, that the regulation of criminal law is a national concern.
Every day in the press misinformation and misrepresentation are used to deny some minorities equality before the law and to denigrate ethnic minorities.
Last Thursday speaking times were extremely tight and then suddenly we had between one and one-and-a-half hours when there was nothing on the agenda and we had to wait for the vote.
The Commission is pleased to see the Joint Assembly playing a larger role, especially in connection with promoting a more extensive political dialogue with our partners in development.
If there is a democratic deficit at the end of this IGC, then I say that the political groups which so wanted this haste will be accountable for this.
This is why our group will remain as close to the common position as possible and will not alter its essence.
Large-scale degassing proliferates and the 16 000 tonnes of tar remaining in the wreck at a depth of 120 m present a major risk of fresh pollution.
In that context I would mention the following: social rights, workers' rights, quality of work, the need to ensure respect, where necessary, for all the criteria laid down by the International Labour Organisation, the right to tolerance and to respect - a right to which all minorities are entitled, particularly within the European Union.
It would be useful for the record of the House to state how people perceive what we have just done in the light of their own political analysis.
Proposal for a resolution (B5-0132/2000) by Mrs Bonino and others, on behalf of the TDI Group, on the Commission communication on the strategic objectives for the next five years
Mr President, I would like to thank my Socialist colleagues, mainly in the committees on transport and the environment, who have not forgotten that this disaster also affects the fishing industry.
Finally, just one more brief comment, Mr Byrne.
It is more important than ever that respect for, and non-violation of, human values and the rights of minorities, including the rights of all those who live within the territory of the European Union, form an essential component in the rule of law principle of the EU, and, for this reason, the Charter of Fundamental Rights must be made legally binding.
The purpose of the Commission's proposal is to harmonise procedures to ensure that no such difference exists.
The successful outcome of these other dossiers could greatly facilitate the subsequent revision of the EWC Directive and even provide some degree of a solution to the problems identified above.
Every single day there are attacks on Serbs, on the Roma, on Bosnians, but attacks are also still carried out on Albanians.
It was not able to do very much but it was repeatedly abused by Members of this House proposing action when the disasters were not even major.
Although I understand that, according to some, this standard is unclear or that it cannot be defended judicially, I do believe that we have to support it because we could then provide more precise standards in a conciliation procedure.
In record time it has organised this Informal Meeting of Defence Ministers and has highlighted a whole series of milestones on the long road towards this Common Foreign and Security Policy.
The unilateral decision by Belgium to re-establish border controls is a clear illustration of this.
A year is ample time to address a large number of issues and it should certainly be enough to address the few crucial points that we wish to be added to the agenda.
The aim must not be to help the people but to make them take responsibility.
Since June of last year, the OLAF regulation has given better guidance to staff about reporting possible irregularities.
Let me mention the latest examples we have seen: Holzmann, a company which receives considerable aid from the German Government; sawmills in former East Germany; and, especially, aid to shipyards.
All this does is to legitimise the development, on the European scale, of resistance movements anxious to bring in a social charter which would harmonise workers' main claims towards the highest common denominator.
We have not done that yet but it will be done in September.
My conclusion is justified on the one hand by the constant and sometimes very insistent demands of the peoples of Europe and on the other hand by the huge scale of the great enterprise in which the European Union is already involved, namely enlargement.
Indeed, it is debatable whether this could be carried through at all without amending the Treaty.
Nevertheless, I have tabled an amendment.
In no way, however, can diseased fish be used for human consumption.
The Portuguese Presidency does not have a magic wand with which it can, in six months, resolve problems that have always existed.
The original proposal simply allowed for the information being gathered to be transmitted to international organisations.
But there is one thing we certainly will not let you get away with and I am sure that, as a lawyer and politician you will understand this. Important issues cannot be regulated in annexes.
Please, Mr Prodi, stand by your word and implement your promises.
I propose that the EU' s objectives for women in the area of decision making should be based upon the averaged-out achievements of the three most successful Member States within each area, with the Member States each submitting a report annually which will then have to be evaluated.
There the theory went that protectionism and state intervention would preserve jobs, allow industry to adjust gradually and without pain.
It was therefore necessary to facilitate this approach.
And that question will of course become increasingly pressing with the approach of 1 January 2002, the date when they will have euros in their pockets.
We in the Commission are obliged to set a specific and clear example and all the Commissioners are working together, as can be seen from the reform of the Commission, to achieve 40% representation of women on all the committees of the European Commission.
In the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, the Confederal Group of the European United Left was in agreement with the draftsman of the opinion, Mr Nogueira Román, on LEADER.
Mr President, I want to thank the Co-President of the Joint ACP-EU Assembly, Mr Corrie. It was no easy task to draw up a report on a complicated forum like the ACP-EU Assembly.
I shall finish by restating my conviction that without economic and social cohesion, there will be no cohesion at all, only disunity.
We welcome the fact that Europol has finally been able to start work.
Madam President, I had a major problem with this resolution.
On 26 November 1999, the European Commission approved a package of measures to combat discrimination.
I only need to remind you that we again have salmon in the Rhine, which would have been unthinkable 20 years ago and that salmon are due to be released this spring in the Elbe, which was particularly polluted.
However, for people with various kinds of physical disability who are in need of special transport and personal assistance, freedom of movement is still highly restricted.
This is the bare minimum on which an agreement can be reached, and it should immediately be said that if any amendments, such as Amendments Nos 32 or 81, or the revised Amendments Nos 70 or 71, were to be passed, the whole convention would be reduced to an exchange of notifications or information and at this point should simply be scrapped, and we would vote against it.
Both myself, as rapporteur, and the committee think we ought to say yes.
However, it would be quite a mammoth task to establish such an Office.
What we need here is good government, Madam President.
At this stage in the discussion, please forgive me if I cannot give a direct answer to the specific questions that have been put to me. I would ask that we be judged on our results, when we endeavour to reach a more concrete solution in the near future.
This indicates that we have a broad consensus.
Cyprus should be one sovereign state, with a single international personality and single citizenship and this state should be demilitarised.
Clearly, Parliament has its own representatives present, Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos.
Lastly, I would like to congratulate Mrs Lienemann on her report and to take the opportunity to say to her that we will be voting in favour of her amendments on comitology even though, as was made clear in the Committee on the Environment, we would prefer LIFE to have been monitored by an advisory committee, we do want to contribute to allowing the solution proposed by the Council to be accepted as quite frankly, it was worse.
Madam President, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group did not associate itself with the joint PPE/DE-PSE resolution on the political situation in Austria following the formation in that country of a coalition government between the conservatives and Jörg Haider' s Freedom Party.
Company restructuring is part of the principle of free determination of investments, and must therefore be defended.
The next item is the statement by the Council on EU priorities for the next session of the UN Human Rights Commission on 20 March 2000.
I myself took part in a meeting of the most remote regions on 23 November and, within the College, we considered that we would need several more weeks before being able to produce a report that dealt appropriately with the extremely serious problems and lived up to the expectations of these most remote regions. I would thank you for your understanding in this matter.
At a time when, Commissioner, after Seattle, we Europeans are fighting on the grounds of multifunctionality in rural development projects, why should we confine ourselves to a few limited criteria with resources that are far from sufficient?
So although I may not share his conclusions, I believe he has illustrated in his report many of the issues which the Commission must address.
The Commission already has a list of 32 priority substances, many of which have a hormone-deregulating effect.
This is undoubtedly a complex issue, and one where we should like to see the Commission informing us of the latest development in the matter, particularly in terms of the capacity of the economies involved in the accession process to comply with competition rules and, as far as state aid is concerned, the need, in all probability, to have specific rules on state aid used to assist restructuring of their sectors.
Cederschiöld report (A5-0020/2000)
Once again the discussion is going to be monopolised by the Heads of State and Government.
In my own country, the various parliamentary groups had differing views on this matter.
In accordance with Article 246 of the Treaty, the auditing of accounts is carried out by the Court of Auditors which, to this end, studies the accounts of all revenue and expenditure of the Community as well as the regularity and the legality of the underlying transactions. The Court also guarantees proper financial management.
Secondly, we should indeed set up a European Public Prosecutor' s Office with two tasks, firstly to assist the national public prosecutors, helping bring criminal proceedings in European fraud cases and, secondly, to supervise Europol and OLAF in a judicial sense because these are two criminal investigation services which can operate at the moment without any judicial supervision.
In other words, there is a loophole here which must be filled and I will examine the solution advocated in the report in the interests of moving things on.
However, instead of imposing a new regime, we could have used the Investment Services Directive as the analogy for this regime.
Since 1993 the Commission's European Community Humanitarian Office, ECHO, has been active in supporting the most vulnerable groups and sectors in Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan.
Nonetheless, there are many maritime areas between which links are already established.
Given that the Commission is represented by Vice-President de Palacio, I believe that, before voting, it would help if the Commission could let us know how ready it is to present this programme, as agreed. Alternatively, Parliament is not ready to examine this programme, as some appear to be suggesting.
All institutions in the European Union will have to face up to the issues posed by the reform and face up to them honestly and responsibly.
That is an issue for consideration and discussion.
In welcoming the cross-sectoral approach embodied in the new EQUAL initiative, it is crucial that the programme addresses the distinct forms of discrimination which militate against disabled people in particular: physical barriers in the workplace affecting those with limited mobility, visual information systems which exclude blind workers, working systems which effectively close the door on people with learning difficulties or with mental health problems.
Mr President, Commissioner, the storms that took place at the turn of the millennium should galvanise us into thinking about certain problems.
Mr President, Commissioner, in a few months' time, hundreds of thousands of holidaymakers will again head for the Adriatic Coast to spend their summer holiday.
I understand this anxiety, this fear that the agenda may be too limited, and yet I feel, as I said to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on returning from Helsinki, that we can work on the basis of this Helsinki mandate.
All citizens, both men and women, should be able to see, to feel that they are genuinely represented by those they have elected and those who rule.
I welcome the legal base being set and the comprehensive way the new rules will, I hope, address this situation.
It is very good that they are continuing to monitor this issue on behalf of Parliament because it is extremely important.
We will therefore have to defer this experiment until the next plenary sitting. However, I will make sure that we have a go then and see how the land lies.
Mr President, the 1985 directive introduced a sort of European visa for certain types of UCITS which could be marketed throughout the Union.
Many countries are currently questioning the principle of the universality of human rights. The belief is widespread that many human rights, including the right to life, contradicted as it is by the death penalty, depend on certain variables, while globalisation, which often has a negative connotation, is in danger of becoming the catch-all for rights, actions and policies everywhere in the world.
And this is not pure chance.
The option accorded to States by the next paragraph of the same article to regulate the exhaustion of the above right is dangerous and is one of the Treaty' s most negative points, since there is nothing to prevent States from enacting special conditions for the exhaustion of the right, a thing that would be to the disadvantage of artists.
Mr President, Mrs Theato' s report on the protection of the European Union' s financial interests proposes centralising criminal proceedings by initially creating a European Public Prosecutor.
Our position was made very clear on this topic in the 2000 budget.
Its terms, which the Swoboda report accepts, are certainly not directed towards peace, but towards greater political and economic dominance of the country, and towards controlling its natural wealth, overexploiting its workforce and continuing to use that country as a springboard against the countries and peoples in the area who are resisting the new order.
Mr Schulz should be aware of this.
Yet is this really how we will reconcile the people and European construction?
This is the foundation, ladies and gentlemen, which I intend to develop, and I shall take the following five areas into special consideration: firstly, providing creative people with opportunities of an innovative nature to allow their talent to find the support it deserves in our programme.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
This debate, and the background to it, reinforced the point that the Council, the Commission and this Parliament itself are dominated by Socialists.
This will provide the opportunity to establish new principles or to return to the more radical changes which have been discussed.
China likes doublespeak.
This is in place too.
We need this framework directive as an essential element of a sustainable development policy which must make the various uses of water compatible with each other.
In Italy, Commissioner Liikanen, Goodyear is not carrying out restructuring but closing a plant whose production covers 14% of the market and which Goodyear itself defined as, 'having the most highly-skilled workforce of all its plants' , a plant which was opened with a total of EUR 85 million of European capital.
One can only hope that it succeeds.
If one looks at petrol, for example, one sees that excise taxes in Germany are different from those of Holland, and consequently Dutch motorists cross the border and fill up their tanks in Germany.
Regarding the role and structure of these guidelines, Mr Hatzidakis, Mrs Schroedter and Mrs McCarthy mentioned that the purpose of these guidelines is to assist national and regional authorities in preparing their programming strategy for each of Structural Fund Objectives 1, 2 and 3 as well as their links with the Cohesion Funds.
I am opposed to European Community officials being accused of criminal acts at the drop of a hat: whistle-blowing is a method that has no place in the third millennium.
Firstly, these relate to the coherence of the policy' s application.
I have no doubt that we will do that on several occasions in the coming months and years, and I certainly look forward to the questions of honourable Members this afternoon.
The Commission can only collate and analyse the data provided by the Member States.
Last year' s debate in New York on sovereignty and humanitarian intervention was such a sensitive topic that it influenced all other issues.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we are in actual fact holding a debate amongst the converted, which is a pity.
(Parliament rejected the proposal for a resolution)
The present agreement is a kind of pre-pre-agreement, but with a view to joining in future.
In Reunion, for example, the rate is 37%.
However, more than a dozen large Belgian beam trawlers have been granted a derogation from this regulation so the vessels that caused the very problem in the first place are carrying on fishing whilst it is a criminal offence for the UK fleet to do so.
However, it has now achieved notoriety.
They have very little of it.
It has clear, ambitious objectives.
I have received four motions for a resolution, tabled pursuant to Rule 40(5) of the Rules of Procedure.
The report which has come to you from the Economic Committee sins in all these respects.
Having been crushed beneath the heel of triumphant Communism, this region has not stopped paying the price for the collapse of the Soviet system since the beginning of the 1990s.
We must be prepared to act swiftly to support the consolidation of peace in the region.
This is a real innovation, both in the EU/ACP context and in international relations in general.
In the example which you mentioned, it is only logical that the teacher in a Catholic school should be Catholic.
Members of this House should not in these circumstances be in the least surprised that in these discussions, people in Scotland and other such countries are asking whether enlargement should not also take the form of admitting new Member States from within existing ones.
In this respect we must not forget that the original victim' s attacker was suffering from a mental illness for which he had been inadequately treated.
(Applause)
The second scenario, which we prefer: to defer the revision and maintain the current situation until such time as we do actually have a proper, detailed objective study of the effects of the 1997 directive.
There is no coherence because there is still no effective coordination with the Member States and there are some projects being carried out by the Member States and the European Union in the developing countries which are very much at odds with one another.
This new role for international organisations on development issues is also a good reason for us to consider the role of the European Union in this context.
EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE
This project amounts to several billion ecus and areas eligible for Structural Funds, such as those listed in Objective 1, might welcome this type of installation.
We would be changing the law to make it executable again, which is something I consider to be unacceptable.
I was in fact shocked to read in the report, assuming this is true, how an Albanian doctor, who was working in the hospital in the Serbian quarter of Mitrovica under what must have been great difficulties, ultimately had to give up helping his kinsmen in this hospital because there were constant threats on his life.
Nor have you integrated it into economic policy, competition or the internal market.
Like so many others, I too wonder where the people responsible are.
Our absolute objective must be to create the prior conditions for all countries in south-east Europe to be integrated with other countries in the EU - economically, politically and in terms of trade.
At the moment, in services which are not theoretically liberalised - as is the case with national postal services - there is a basic form of liberalisation, which is agreed within the framework of the Universal Postal Union, allowing for lower tariffs.
Of course we need to modernise these systems.
As I have also said before to this House, the Commission is favourable to inserting the Charter in the EU Treaty.
I will therefore be available whenever you want in order to inform you of our positions and the progress being made in these negotiations throughout this year.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is no coincidence that I am the fifth Member of this House from Scotland to rise to speak in this debate.
These include the extension of qualified voting - in my country we accept that but not to areas of taxation - the re-weighting of voting in Council to favour larger states and the number of Commissioners in an enlarged Europe.
A solution is needed to the Palestinian refugee problem - these are the largest group of refugees in the world, numbering nearly 5 million people - an indication of the enormous challenges ahead.
The market is not an end in itself; it must help to improve the human condition.
Of course, there is a relationship between military resources and humanitarian assistance, and there are serious military deficiencies in the armed forces of many European countries.
Fifthly, to publish an annual scientific, technical and financial assessment of LIFE operations carried out.
In order to function, the market needs rules.
The chapter of the White Paper devoted to the establishment of a European food authority is clearly designed to elicit views and comments.
We therefore need to be particularly vigilant to ensure that genuine options are open to those countries which are not yet ready for free-trade arrangements.
Consequently, the Commission proposal under discussion today is intended to amend the directive in order to provide a short-term solution to these problems, rather than to put an end to the transitional arrangements, as should have been the case!
The process of European integration and enlargement has speeded up impressively since the fall of the iron curtain.
Yet the erratic movement of these massive sums of capital can, in a few hours, cause the collapse of a currency or the economy of a country, plunging its whole population into recession.
I attach particular importance to adopting an integrated approach towards rural development because I am convinced that only cooperation linking up all people from all walks of life in rural areas will permit them to be active and attractive places to live for everyone; I refer, in short, to the multifunctionality of rural areas.
It may be easy to come up with solutions, but what matters is how well those solutions will stand up in the long term.
And I make the point, before I move to my questions, that what happens concerning the Staff Regulations in the Commission has a fundamental role on our responsibility also as employers of staff because, of course, the European Parliament staff operate under the same conditions.
It is not just the sort of policing that we identify with community policemen on the street corner.
Frustration inevitably sets in when we see the weakness of the Convention (and of the protocols relating to this protection) which, five years after being signed, has still not been ratified and has still not come into force.
To that end, the Commission has commissioned studies on the cost of universal services, the consequences of liberalising cross-border mail and direct mail, the consequences of reducing weight and cost limits in the reserved sector, the consequences of liberalising the other phases of the postal process, excluding distribution, and an overall appraisal of the results of those studies.
First there is wide information for and involvement by the public, a rarity in a European directive.
That is reasonable because it comes from the Budgetary Control Committee.
As far as we are concerned, after producing the opinion expected from the Commission, according to this same Article 48 of the Treaty, we are pleased that the conference can thus begin earlier than anticipated.
Furthermore, I have asked the president of the Office for Harmonisation in the Internal Market, that is to say the Office in Alicante, to comment further on this new question and I can, as a result, inform the honourable Member as follows, on behalf of the Office:
My fear - even if you shake your head, Mr Prodi - is that this will translate into what some countries have thought for years, that the Commission should be a simple secretariat for the Council of Ministers.
In any event, I look forward to the document which was approved by the Commission today.
In less than two months we have established the mechanics for cooperation with the Commission.
For this reason, I am particularly pleased to see the monies focussed on projects by small and medium-sized enterprises.
Mr President, Commissioner, since the issue of employment has been raised, I want to recall another issue which is also very serious, namely the bankruptcies among Tour Operators and their consequences mainly for hotels, which are small or medium enterprises lacking the necessary organisation and access to information that would indicate to them whether or not their contractual partners are trustworthy.
Firstly, the idea of an EU passport for management companies is to be welcomed; and the home-state approval rule is also to be welcomed.
Over-optimism will give way to disappointment and fear, which, in turn, will result in a stock market and economic crisis.
In Europe, in your rapporteur' s opinion, this is exactly the attitude that has served us badly over past years, not just once but repeatedly.
Clearly, the importance of recognising the economic value of ecological factors in setting prices and making operators accountable through the adoption of incentives for non-polluting systems, seems unquestionable in the light of events that characterise the relationship between economic development and the protection of our environmental heritage, particularly our water resources.
Firstly we are creating a network of reception centres for minors.
Water is one of our most important natural resources, as many speakers have already said.
As for the peace process in Cyprus and how it is linked with the accession negotiations, I would reiterate that there has always been a direct connection between the two.
Local politicians cannot do that, once legislation has been passed in Brussels.
How can consumer confidence in products from this area be regained?
Unfortunately, this is not the first time that Madam President has shown this inadmissible behaviour towards me.
I can confirm that our proposal is completely within the spirit of the resolution of 18 November.
Today, Kosovo has no adequate strategy for protecting minority groups, and these include not only Serbs and Roma, but also moderate Albanians who still believe in the possibility of peaceful coexistence and are persecuted by the extremists in power.
I think it is an important step we are taking, even if each of the national systems is not especially influenced by it.
I have not been able to vote in favour of the present decision even though I agree with many of its premises. What we have here, first and foremost, is an incredibly ominous mixture of power, arrogance and impotence on the part of the European Union.
I would remind you that questions on the Minutes should refer to the Minutes.
Who is imposing their will on the nations of Europe, daring to stop them choosing their own fate?
May he rest in peace.
Also, ethical principles are at the heart of this research but your communication says nothing about these.
I should like to give you an example of one way in which you can meet these expectations relatively quickly in at least one small segment.
At a hospice for AIDS patients, I met two Irish Catholic nuns who were caring for dying AIDS patients.
Before the end of March, I propose to present a communication in which I will possibly present legislative texts, that is to say, amendments of specific directives so that discussions may begin in the Council and in Parliament.
I am also thinking of the importance of strengthening the applicant States' links with trans-European networks in the shape of both physical forms of transport and IT infrastructure.
-
But a system cannot function in this way: it will only work if the two aspects go hand in hand.
Orders in the steel industry and the ship-building industry - we also spoke about this a while ago - have decreased drastically, resulting in a loss of jobs.
These ambiguities mask many misunderstandings, primarily about our values.
However, I am also thinking of my own region where my government is still debating whether to route the railway or to build a second motorway, the A32.
They have also shown how they feel: not all the demonstrations have taken place outside Austria.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to support this proposal on principle while asking right at the outset whether the previous speaker' s statement that on the one hand we need an innovative and highly effective and competitive service while on the other hand this service should be a public service, is not a contradiction in terms.
Every time, when we asked why, the reply was the same, 'We cannot release him: he is a war criminal' .
We can cast our minds back to a similar situation in the United States.
Back in 1994, the Joint Assembly passed an initial resolution, in which our fellow Member Dominique Souchet was closely involved, expressing its alarm at the foreseeable consequences of the Uruguay Round, which contradicted the very principle of Community preference which was fundamental to this cooperation.
We all know that this change of heart is basically due to the close cause-effect relationship between tourism and employment. It is also due to the recognition by the European Union, since the 1997 conference on these issues, of the enormous potential, represented by tourism, for employment.
The subject of the statement that I have the honour of presenting to you today, is the coherence of different Union policies with development policy.
Wrongly done, the threatening images that have been described here will certainly become a reality.
In addition to providing more appropriate conditions of safety and hygiene, the use of more modern vessels could also contribute to reducing certain major factors.
What is the Commissioner' s opinion of this?
We should therefore review our policies in order to take account of this fact.
I do not believe we can be prescriptive in the area of science and advice based on science.
One of the reasons that explains the difference in competitiveness between the European area, for example and the United States, is precisely this ability of bouncing back that exists on the other side of the Atlantic and that we just do not have here.
Excesses are no longer the exception, they have unfortunately become the rule.
It is all very well for us, by mutual consensus, to make an effort in terms of budgetary rationalisation, but you must be very aware that the lack of resources, the absence of financial autonomy and the poor execution of the budget, continue to be urgent issues which must be resolved.
Therefore, the issues of the reversed burden of proof and of what the burden of proof is to look like are not especially discussed in this context. Instead, it is a question of political decision-making and of the bases for this.
However, I find these passports inadequate.
But to enlighten the decision makers, let us practise honest science, without the ulterior motive of having the European Union finance excuses to destroy our fishing boats.
I do not know whether these proposals will meet with a favourable reception or not.
Now is the time for Europe to put its own house in order; to instil in its institutions - as the independent experts might have said - a sense of responsibility.
I believe we have to do something to make ourselves more competitive.
What is the point of banning European drift nets in the île d' Yeu or elsewhere, if Japan, Korea and Tunisia use them and land fish here which we are not allowed to catch?
The time is now right, I think, to consider including the exchange of positive development experience in the scope of transnational cooperation.
It operates too slowly, and it therefore stands to reason that the developing countries should have said yes to the new system of the future, because this will operate more flexibly.
Hence the Commission rightly cited the economic importance thereof in its proposals for draft directives, and I must say that I actually have every confidence in the Commission' s proposal.
First of all, many speakers stressed that globalisation accentuates regional imbalances and social inequality, and increases poverty.
After all, the very bad experiences so far with disciplinary proceedings show all too clearly how necessary it is that we carry out reforms.
Report (A5-0003/2000) by Mr Marinho, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on
As a result, we shall vote against granting discharge for 1997, too.
I do respect and agree with this procedure, as I also agree with the freedom of expression for everyone. However, for the second time in a fortnight these visits have been used to attack individuals, political parties, including my own, and institutions.
Aquaculture should also be monitored.
Mr Gil-Robles returned this morning from Chechnya where he visited Grozny. When we spoke he gave me his initial impressions which are not good, as you can imagine.
So it is clearly necessary to ask what the EU is doing to protect the euro against counterfeiting.
It merely prolongs transitional rules by postponing deadlines, deletes provisions which are no longer applicable, and lays down the procedures for a) carrying out the ad hoc transportation of dangerous goods and b) enacting less stringent national regulations, in particular for the transport of very small amounts of dangerous goods within strictly defined local areas.
One of the reasons why it has been so successful is that the basic concept of the LEADER programmes aroused substantial interest in activities amongst the population concerned.
These rules are all the more welcome in that doubts still persist as regards scrapie.
The vote will take place at 12 noon.
Unfortunately, the 25% often consists of flags which are expected to fulfil the requirements: in this way inspections are quicker and the work is carried out more easily.
Mr President, Mrs Theato is proposing institutional revolution for a twofold reason.
We should be careful, though, Mr Prodi, because we had a crisis of confidence in the previous Commission and backed this Commission - at least a parliamentary majority backed this Commission - precisely because, first and foremost, the reform of the Commission would bring consolidation, a new identity and a new awareness of being guided by a firm hand.
Confidence in the European Union has been seriously damaged.
When we suddenly refused this offer, an inflammatory and rabble-rousing propaganda campaign began that is beyond our comprehension to this day.
Mr President, may I commence by complimenting Mr Langen on his work.
This applies to every country.
I think it is well known that the European Union has made a clear contribution to the humanitarian aid effort being made by the international community.
This new move follows on from the step taken at the Helsinki European Council last December, when it was decided that Malta had made sufficient progress to warrant opening bilateral conferences in February 2000, i.e. by the end of this month, in order to commence negotiations on the conditions of accession to the Union and the adjustments required.
What we are seeking with this legislation is not to make the statistics reliable and comparable - they already are - but to make them more reliable and more comparable.
Does the President of the Council not think that we should stop talking and implement tough measures in this area, bearing in mind that we now have the means to control this type of oil tanker on the high seas?
Anyone, therefore, who invites Franz Fischler to his house to somehow account for the fact that his nationality is Austrian, should examine their own motives in the context of a debate, which has been necessarily shadowed by references to xenophobia and even more lethal evils in this world.
I also note that eligibility for expenditure shall be accepted from the date that programmes are presented and I can confirm the possibility that they may be available retroactively back to 1 January, if the programme is presented before 30 April.
I must take this opportunity to say that it is precisely the amendment submitted by the European Parliament that is so important to me in this respect.
(Parliament gave its assent)
We have different traditions and there are differences in culture and, in spite of there being many points of similarity, there are also major differences between one country and another in the nature and extent of the social problems concerned. It is therefore important to emphasise that social policy is a national concern.
It is probably horrendous, especially in this particular raft of legislation, that there are confused rules, regulatory vacuums and rules that only lay down undefined legal concepts.
I would ask the Council to adopt it swiftly and I would ask Parliament to help us with this action which will further strengthen the fundamental bases of our social cohesion.
For millions of people the situation is too tragic for that.
It is most important quite generally in a single market to have reliable and directly comparable data and statistics so as to give an accurate picture of the situation and development trends.
. (ES) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I must thank this House for its serious and detailed work.
They must focus on service to people and commitment to achieving freedom for each individual, without forgetting, naturally, that all this cannot and must not conflict with the need to create business, to invest and risk, and in an ordered and focused system, entrepreneurs are able to make a substantial contribution to social growth solidarity.
There has been no proper development assessment of this directive which the producer countries, 90% of which are our ACP partners, estimate could cut incomes to cacao farmers by at least 15%.
As an example I would give the restructuring of ABB Alsthom Power. A sizeable delegation of employees of this firm from throughout Europe is visiting Strasbourg today.
In its proposal the Commission called for an observatory for the LEADER+ programme without going into detail on how this proposal would be implemented.
I wonder, and here I do not entirely agree with the positive interpretations of a number of press bodies and fellow Members, about the direction in which we are going.
To this end, Europe as a whole, and each Member State individually, will have to make optimum use of all available resources and capacities, including the Structural Funds.
If it is merely a hand-me-down legal basis taken over from previous directives, then it is a mistake to keep it.
We are sure that there will be an important "reform dividend" as the modernisation measures begin to foster increased efficiency and better management in the use of resources.
We are in the process of looking into this question and assessing what knowledge we have today and what it is possible to do.
But if you want Europe to go forward and to start delivering to the people of Europe, then I would call upon you all to give your support to this report, because it will deliver those jobs, and it will deliver those opportunities, and it is the only way to do so.
Chinese leaders are in no doubt about our position on all these issues and on developments in Tibet.
But it is not just a question of preventing or putting a stop to sickening instances of aggression perpetrated by individuals or institutions against those in a weaker position.
We will only be able to say that the structural policy of the Union has been a success when we manage to create a sufficient number of jobs and when there is a significant reduction in the unemployment rate.
Madam President, the Commission proposals include the waiver of immunity of officials.
As you know, the Iraqi Government has refused to abide by United Nations Resolution 1284, and this is likely to lead, within the next six or seven weeks, to a refusal to issue entrance visas to the committee monitoring the destruction of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons.
It would be very difficult for the Community to determine the conditions for the regulation of water in the different regions, given the different internal balances which are always in play and which require profound knowledge of the different areas and the relevant interests.
I would like to ask the Commission - and I am glad that Commissioner Solbes is here with us this evening - to present us in time with this multiannual finance programme, with the corresponding report, requested by Parliament, so that it may be taken into account when the preliminary draft of the next budget is drawn up, as we have been promised.
Several speakers mentioned that the only person with whom many elderly people have any contact is the postman, particularly in mountain communities.
I also look forward to the White Paper which will be available in February.
Subject: Portuguese Presidency and development policy Will the President-in-Office of the Council make a statement on the priorities of the Portuguese Presidency with regard to development policy, the Convention of Lomé and tackling famine situations?
There are other examples of conservation in special scientific areas being damaged as a result of EU funding.
The industry itself will ensure that these systems are introduced in Europe.
Mr President, Commissioner, no one could dispute the usefulness of implementing the qualitative and quantitative data on the fishing industry, particularly in view of the reform of the CFP in 2002.
But do you not regret the fact that you do not preside over them yourself and are not their leading light?
Tens of thousands of people are on the run.
It will not do to keep us under constant pressure.
The second event took place in France, which passed a law on the equal representation of men and women as a result of the declaration made in April 1999 at the 'Women and Men in Power' conference, at which the ministers responsible undertook to implement specific measures and policies to change the power ratio.
Think of specialist, national courts with the option of direct appeal to a special competition court at the European Court.
The affected area is designated a Special Protection Area (SPA) under the Wild Birds Directive and is under consideration for a Special Area of Conservation under the Habitats Directive, as it is an area of international importance. Many local and European associations have strongly criticised the project.
Whether or not this will encourage her to continue along the same path, I cannot say. Nevertheless, I would like to commend her on her work.
That is all I have to say for the moment.
They should be able to establish themselves in new markets, but also to leave old markets.
I know that all the Institutions bear some responsibility for the increasing workload of the Commission and for some of the lack of resources.
President.
Mr Solana must keep Europe awake without nodding off himself.
The common fisheries policy is not working.
This is a small political decision which would bring major benefits, especially in helping the two communities effectively to constitute one state, to achieve effective rapprochement - because the two communities were once close - and for the Republic of Cyprus, genuinely, to be rid of occupying forces.
Let us continue to fight and ensure that this century brings us victory: not over men, not over anyone, but the victory of equality between men and women.
The third aspect concerns the principle of subsidiarity that underpins the European Union.
I should like this programme to become a practical reality and for culture to be not only a factor of enrichment for our citizens, both in personal as well as in social and economic terms, but a right which it is our job to assert, and also the hallmark of rediscovered interaction within the Union.
He was just as pleased and pleasantly surprised as yourself at the fact that it had been possible to agree about so much.
Just as the Court of Justice recognised in its order of 3 May 1996, the iron and steel industry is particularly sensitive to disturbances to its competitive operation.
This war must be stopped.
We want in particular to see the hard-working and highly competent norm for Commission officials acknowledged in the outside world - a reputation that has been darkened by the inappropriate conduct of a few individuals.
Regarding enlargement: what plans does the Commission have to involve the applicant states in debates on these new laws, given that the Commission clearly expects the laws envisaged in the White Paper to form part of the acquis communautaire by 2003?
The Member States do not always have sufficient means at their disposal to address this deprivation adequately.
Thirdly: it will need to be made clear for each of the EU institutions where the responsibility for human rights policy lies within the European Union and what the tasks and competences are that this entails.
The concern involves the pre-accession process for the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, in terms of competition policy and state aid.
We all know that water is a commodity without which mankind cannot live and that it is imperative that its quality should be preserved.
I would repeat at this juncture what Professor Lindgren of Lund University has stated, namely that whatever happens in terms of import restrictions, the consumption of alcohol will remain the same.
For that reason, we shall vote against both these proposals.
In area after area, we are now obtaining common minimum regulations for the Member States.
Much, as Commissioner Patten said, remains to be done.
This morning, the President of Parliament, Mrs Nicole Fontaine, repeatedly refused to allow me to make a point of order.
We will have to revisit this issue again in the near future.
The situation in the refugee camps in Ingushetia is poor and deteriorating.
This is the European Union, not the Soviet Union.
That is what I am asking President Prodi for at this moment.
We needed a Greek Member to finally tell us what this Tobin tax means.
We have to table motions proposing that our citizens might really have a direct impact on decision-making.
We need to get ourselves into a position of conciliation.
It is in this spirit that the delegation for relations with the Maghreb countries will be visiting Morocco on 20 to 22 March.
I should also like to say that, in my view, what would be most effective would be for Parliament to call for proposals from, respectively, the Development Council and the Commissioner for Development. In that way, we should perhaps have a basis for discussion, instead of receiving proposals from all the governments and from all over the Commission, which is scarcely likely to produce results.
Climate change and water policy are subjects that are of great concern to the European public and which have deserved considerable attention from this House.
In fact, it is in many respects pioneering work when it comes to re-use and manufacturer' s liability.
We will support small and medium-sized events, not the large ones, and we will afford individual citizens and also the smaller operators easier access.
After only a few weeks, Mrs Rothe, it is still too early to deliver a verdict on this, but in any case, I have no grounds for assuming that the new line will fail.
It is well known that the level and quality of employment determines the quality of social security systems.
Report (A5-0011/2000) by Mr Langen, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council decision adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of renewable energy sources in the Community - Altener (C5-0333/1999 - 1997/0370(COD))
We can only do that by intensifying co-operation within the Community.
Surely Europe should act as a safeguard, maintaining a certain equilibrium between increased profitability and social welfare?
I am pleased to see, however, that under LEADER+, new resources have been allocated to helping rural territories to develop their potential and to implement the objectives of local and sustainable development.
This is also true of development cooperation.
Is there a Member who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal?
However, Madam President, these considerations must not hide the fact that the joint text which we will vote on tomorrow, and which the Socialists will vote in favour of, will put in place one of the European Union' s most important programmes.
This disaster has raised a number of important issues which concern us as a European Union.
Therefore, in future, prior approval should take place in a targeted manner, that is, only in cases of uncertainty or risk.
We also hope that the communication will help to build a better common understanding of how to manage risks and to dispel fears that the precautionary principle might be used in an arbitrary way or as a disguised form of trade protectionism.
It is all about creating a socially just Europe.
We accept the predominant role of the Council in this, but there are reservations and I am sure that the Council will listen to the words coming from the elected parliamentarians here when they go through it in more detail.
Most of Parliament' s proposed amendments help improve the text and make it more ambitious.
Various arguments have been presented in its favour.
The vote will take place at 6 p.m.
My group will not be supporting those amendments.
The EU is committed to mobilising these remaining balances, plus the new EDF resources, over a seven-year period, that is to say, before the entry into force of the next financial protocol.
I would not want you to be birds of ill omen, but I fear that, by failing to confront the real issue, you will end up being just that and I shall hold you entirely responsible for what may happen.
We know that we can change this situation, in which women are underrepresented in the science sector, only by means of a policy of educational guidance which will systematically encourage a greater range of career choices for girls and, when they have obtained their degrees, by means of positive measures at the professional level.
Nothing has happened!
I want this dialogue to be a real dialogue. So, after a short film objectively explaining the challenges of institutional reform, those in the public gallery can participate in an open discussion.
The politics of closed doors and private discussions; all that must be consigned to the past once and for all.
All the same, there is one point on which we are in conflict.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as long as nearly thirty years ago, the European Commission made attempts to draw up a European water policy.
The main thread of the discussion is about whether or not the manufacturer, the vendor, or whoever, should take the end-of-life vehicle back without any cost.
I think that the European Union and the western world in general has had Mr Savimbi in their crossfire for some time now, with no discrimination whatsoever, but corruption is now so rife in Mr Dos Santos' s regime that even his long-standing friends are starting to find it hard to pretend not to see anything.
Commissioner, I am asking these questions as a defender of the internal market and I hope that, in this sense, we are all partners and that the discussion between these partners does not remain sterile but can bear fruit.
Representatives of the Council, within the next month we are going to table a motion for a resolution in this Parliament.
The possibility, if necessary, of having additional inspections of animals in these areas is not a question of artificial protectionism or the restriction of freedom of movement, as there really is justification for it.
She has clearly identified the problems created by the approval of the World Intellectual Property Organisation' s treaties.
Competition policy will no doubt have to be applied to this sector before the coming liberalisation - before 1 January 2003 - because at the moment the tendency is to divert mail via countries with lower postage rates.
That is why we are justified in stating that the use of quotas, as a transitional measure, contributes to balancing out the participation of men and women, particularly in political life.
Report (A5-0009/2000) by Mr Graça Moura, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European Parliament and Council decision establishing a single financing and programming instrument for cultural cooperation ('Culture 2000') (C5-0327/1999 - 1998/0169(COD))
Calling under these circumstances, as he does in paragraph 20, for the budget for this strand to be increased is another example of the irresponsible and ideological outbidding tactics which are customary in this House.
While there are some aspects of the report which I believe would be better dealt with in a different way, overall I believe the report offers a flexible and sensible approach and should be supported.
It is also irrelevant, in my view, as to who is working towards separation and division in Kosovo.
Does the Commission think that there will be never be any revision?
Our amendments from the first reading have, I believe, been taken into account very satisfactorily.
Of course there must, but not this type of Intergovernmental Conference.
This means that this proposal' s fundamental aim is not to resolve the problem of the restricted movement of these workers, but merely to improve the position of the companies providing services.
We must make the perpetrators liable for all manner of damage done to our environment.
While, since the dawn of time, the market has been the key forum for human interchange, it has never been perfect.
The White Paper requires only a single aspect of the issue to be re-examined: the exchange of confidential information.
We cannot maintain a situation in which income from non-economic activities increases more and more quickly.
The government too is responsible for this continuing violence. This is why we insist that the journalists - more than 20 were imprisoned last year - keep speaking their minds.
I also thank the Working Groups on the small island states and climate change and the Follow-up Group on Fisheries for their excellent reports.
I am of the view that the existing system of scientific advice needs to be strengthened.
We will dedicate approximately one hour and fifteen minutes to Question Time.
Even with the new rules introduced by the Treaty of Amsterdam, foreseeing its entry into force once at least half of the Member States have adopted the Convention, I would like to urge the Member States to do everything in their power to speedily ratify this Convention.
We would encourage a continuation of the open debate which has been strengthened in the course of consideration of the reports by Mr von Wogau and Mr Rapkay.
But I must say that despite the scare-mongering of the Greens, it has to be emphasised that ISA cannot under any circumstances be transmitted to humans, and I must repeat what Mr Hudghton said, that the virus cannot survive above 25o - which is human body temperature - it is a virus of a cold-water species.
The difficulty lies in finding the right solution to allow women to have a greater presence in positions of responsibility and therefore in decision making.
If this is not to be a mere media event, it will need to be carefully prepared by a joint committee, the composition of which the Portuguese Presidency has already proposed.
Mr President, first of all, I would like to warmly congratulate Mr Solana on this first day of March, for a number of frameworks have been put in place today which have a bearing on European security and defence policy.
I beg to move acceptance of this report.
Today, if 314 Members of Parliament yield to the strength of the lobbying of some car manufacturers, we should be doing ourselves dishonour.
I understand that they have been some five years in their gestation.
I know that you, as Members of Parliament, in your own regions and countries, are all going to work together with the programme participants so that all these small flowers, as one Member of Parliament said, go to make a vast multicoloured carpet.
So how is it possible to speak about healthy and economically sustainable social security systems when we are faced with the millions of unemployed, impoverished and marginalised people, the 'working poor' of part-time employment, and working conditions that are dissociated from the policies implemented?
A paper this short is a farce.
Mr President, Mr Solana, we are all behaving like children.
I also think it is important that we should put pressure on the Member States to devise the necessary action programmes more quickly than is proposed in the common position.
In 1998, 123 referrals were made to the Court of Justice for non-application or non-transposition and 25% of environmental directives were not applied or transposed.
Madam President, if the vote records correctly how my Group voted I shall not, and cannot, object to that.
To this end, the Brok report is a good instrument and it is really a bit distressing that, because this is a joint debate, it is politically overshadowed by the political position of the Council and the Commission and we cannot therefore say more about this good report.
The amendment to the directive on today's agenda does not therefore affect the existing harmonisation of the transport of dangerous goods in the Community.
There are few of them left and they are up against a very powerful, economic adversary.
Secondly, it is also clear that reform will require some new investment in training for skills and in technology.
That is the position which a clear majority of the Committee on Budgetary Control subscribes to.
In June of last year Europe's voters gave a clear signal that they are fed up with endless stories about mismanagement and nepotism.
What do we expect from a government in any case?
These changes may of course alter the government deficits in terms of the Member States' national accounting.
The Commission has no information regarding the impact of the construction of the Ilisu Dam on the population of the region.
We adopt legislation in the European Union.
Quite simply, we are to have a minimum level for the maximum penalty.
Of course, every instance of a deprived urban area is a separate case.
Secondly, we must bear in mind that Cuba' s application has the support of all the ACP countries.
These events have also acted as a wake-up call to our consciences.
The legislator should protect the general interest and introduce safeguard clauses.
Firstly, the liability of owners of oil cargoes must be clearly established and the victims of pollution incidents must be able to claim on this liability unequivocally.
Mr President, when the Doñana disaster occurred, the non-governmental organisation, the World Wide Fund for Nature, gave us a report on the number of reservoirs of this type in Europe.
To blame fishermen alone for environmental damage is both unfair and wrong.
.
Will the Council say just simply yes or no to it or will it be in a position to actually then redraft that draft Charter?
But I think we should not allow our concerns about GMOs to overshadow our concerns about growth promoters used in animal feed or antibiotics used in compound feed.
I would like to take this opportunity to remind you that the Budget of the European Union is approved by common agreement between the Council and this Parliament.
We understand that we also have a responsibility here, that if we are given documents we must ensure that confidential documents will indeed be kept confidential.
With the Amsterdam Treaty, the situation improved decidedly when the number of committee procedures was drastically reduced - as the European Parliament had long wanted - to three procedures, the administrative procedure, the regulatory procedure and the advisory procedure.
That is why we want annual reports, we want an annual inter-service group and we want a complaints procedure, to make sure action is actually taken.
We have high hopes for what you will achieve.
I sincerely hope that, particularly during the French presidency later this year, the Commission and the Council will look carefully at all these options, and I heartily commend this resolution to Parliament.
That is why I have called for a roll-call vote on this.
I do not like the term 'leftovers' any more than Richard Corbett does.
Some say that it is the worst accident that has ever befallen the bird life of this part of Europe.
At the moment, Article 52 of the staff regulations concerning dismissal on the grounds of gross negligence is never used.
However, increasing flexibility can or quickly threatens to turn into intergovernmentalisation.
I am pleased that the Council is considering this question.
Because disabled people do not form one homogenous group - for example many deaf people see themselves as a linguistic minority denied respect for their own language and culture - it is necessary as stated in paragraph 9 to enable some partnerships to be defined which are specific to a particular disability or other group.
It is recognised in that White Paper that liability is only effective where the polluter can be identified, where the damage can be quantified and where a clear causal connection can be made between the two.
Let us not demand from others what we are not prepared to give ourselves?
On the other hand this is not a free market without limits and if you come from a rural area you recognise that some services in the free market situation cannot and will not be provided.
I am pleased that Ireland has recently announced that it is going to spend £125 million on the development of an environmentally sustainable energy sector.
There have been times within this Parliament when such discussions on social security were actually quite awkward.
Naturally, there are diverse requirements across the Commission depending on the number and nature of the financial transactions in which particular Directorates-General have to engage.
I ask for your support.
On the other hand, it would be so difficult to bring the scheme into force everywhere in the world at precisely the same time - and personally speaking, I do not believe we can achieve this - that the Tobin tax dream might as well be buried.
We have reached a propitious moment and I think the Macedonians are glad about it.
Mr President, the Commission' s resignation has also created a culture of fear amongst many officials within the hierarchy and large bureaucracy.
) Mr President, I voted for the Council's strategy for modernising social protection because, in my view, it constitutes a step towards the establishment of European social and pensions legislation, although it does not actually go the whole way.
I am not now speaking of Charlotte Cederschiöld' s recommendation, which is an excellent paper, but of the matters of copyright that the previous Parliament discussed.
There were many and difficult issues and not always crystal clear, but I will try to answer some questions.
This is a creative initiative, which we know has been welcomed by different industries across the world and by various sides in European politics, but the Commission has not yet put forward any proposal or initiative on this issue.
The two initial phases were not observed which, logically, ought to compromise the third.
I have endeavoured to secure the widest possible support for the report.
What is more, the Portuguese Presidency sees the fight against unemployment as top priority.
(FR) As a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs during the last parliamentary term, I welcome the adoption of this framework decision on increasing protection for our single currency.
However, with the evolution of dynamic networks with national scientific bodies and agencies, the authority will become pre-eminent on the European stage.
But now I call on you, in all consciousness, to help put a stop to speculative financial transactions and undermining long-term projects with long-term capital.
That is why, and I quote, this framework decision "is confined to supplementing the provisions of the International Convention of 20 April 1929 for the suppression of counterfeiting and its Protocol" , i.e. the provisions of a timeworn international convention that is a good 71 years old.
That is why we did not vote in favour of the report as amended by them, despite our efforts, and we shall not vote for it as it stands at the moment.
It brilliantly illustrates the political dimension of a partnership which constitutes the only forum for dialogue and political exchange within north-south relations.
If Member States do not do anything about this, there will be even fewer means for care, education and other important public amenities in the future.
Mr President, like so many others here today, I believe this is a good measure.
Do you intend to press for a common policy for asylum and immigration?
Having said this, our Group is pleased about the step forward which the compromise motion represents. This invites the Commission to present a report within six months.
The Union for a Europe of Nations Group, on the other hand, wishes to see a polycentric Europe with nations linked in a network.
The staffing system is too rigid.
In any case, the Council' s position is clear in that it considers that the objective of the air campaign carried out by the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia was to put an end to the humanitarian disaster in Kosovo caused by the Belgrade regime.
Cambodia
The date set for completing the next phase, which the Commission intends to keep to, is 1 January 2003.
Commissioner, I would also like to thank you for the speedy response of your department to this event and the measures which are being adopted and implemented.
We can deal with it.
It also, of course, damages credibility when it is stated that monetary union could constitute a counterbalance to globalised capital.
I accept this; I take note of it as you do.
In my view, we should be evaluating and modifying some of the political instruments we use to measure the status of human rights globally.
However, the Council statement gave me hope for the future.
I think that given the dramatic circumstances, and as a matter of principle, it would be ill-advised and inappropriate to hold several votes.
The Commissioners taking part are President Prodi, Vice-President Kinnock, Mr Reding and myself.
Mr President, with regard to the various initiatives which we are analysing this afternoon, I would like to concentrate strictly on one of them, that is, the URBAN programme.
An analysis of this kind should look not only at the flow of aid but also give comprehensive consideration to all the different types of aid and transfers of resources which influence poor countries. These include technology, trade, cooperation in the field of research etc.
I think I have seen three types of fundamental concern in tonight' s debate.
It also inspires a few political comments.
Now that the Commission has to consider carefully what resources are required for each activity, this is an example of the kind of activity we ought to avoid: one that is inessential but demanding in terms of resources.
If the current draft is correct, then this is a huge step backwards in comparison to today.
They constitute a significant step towards establishing an effective European Security and Defence Policy.
In order to assert our fundamental values, they need to be laid down in writing, as a matter of urgency, and, beyond this IGC, I believe we owe Europe a constitution.
For example, the figures for last year now show that the total value of mergers in the European area was EUR 1.4 trillion, which is seven times the level of merger activity at the peak of the last European merger boom in 1990.
Where brominated flame retardants are concerned, there may eventually be a ban, but it is important to say that the precautionary principle permits the whole spectrum of political measures and initiatives to be taken.
It is unacceptable for women to continue to be underrepresented.
One of the objections is that, due to the restricted role of the elected bodies, businesses gain more influence.
In this way, LEADER+ can, together with the programmes under Regulation (EC) No 1257/99, consolidate the second pillar of the CAP even more effectively and produce the best possible benefits for the whole of the countryside.
We need to have a wide element of flexibility within the programme.
We shall now move on to Question Time.
All these stock market battles are based solely on forecast increases in profit of 15%, 20% or 25% which are unrealistic in the long term.
It is also true that there is a lot of European money around. Commissioner Barnier has pointed out that oyster farming and agriculture would be eligible under Article 30 of the regulation concerning rural development, forestry would be eligible under Article 33, companies would be eligible under exemptions from the competition law stated in Article 87(2) of the Treaty and public facilities would be eligible under the Structural Funds.
I would therefore advocate that the EUR 15 million in category 4 be dropped, in line with the Commission' s proposal.
This is a pity because everyone within this Chamber knows that LIFE is a financial instrument which is not sufficient to carry out the projects submitted by Member States, a good many of which are turned down due to lack of funds.
It is the Member States' parliaments, or people voting in referenda, who are to direct the development of the Treaty.
The proposal for a legislative act of this kind should contain an independent statute for this body and define its tasks, which are confined to inquiries and criminal prosecution undertaken by OLAF into activities which are to the detriment of the Union' s financial interests, and to OLAF' s relationship with the national authorities.
We have received many excellent observations and contributions which give us the material to make a cost-benefit assessment for business.
That is the reason why the Commission has put forward these two separate proposals.
This has a certain semiological value because the Mediterranean and its islands - and I too come from an island - are the area which most of those who come from northern Europe for their summer holidays get to see, as well as the people who live there.
I do not think so.
Needless to say, it is clear that harmonisation of social security is not viable at European level.
On the other hand, it manipulates the principle of positive discrimination. This is a politically correct fancy which can be just as harmful, as shown by the US precedent.
Allow me to start with the most important demand.
Public opinion, although indifferent to 20 million unemployed and thousands of mad cows, is now supposed to be worried about the fraud endangering financial interests and these two reasons are supposed to justify a twofold solution: a European criminal code with crimes against the Community and a European Prosecutor-General.
Through the current programme, which covers the period 1997 to 2000, we are endeavouring to encourage a workplace culture in which the value of both men and women is integrated and where gender-specific needs are taken into consideration.
However, we must not forget that these crisis operations must be tackled from a civilian front as well.
This danger does not concern Austria, it concerns Europe.
We do not want financial control to be abolished.
You are unclear about this in your White Paper.
I am also delighted to be able to confirm that I shall be participating in the Joint Assembly' s next meeting, which takes place in March in Nigeria.
Report (A5-0023/2000) by Mr Böge, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive amending Council Directive 91/68/EEC as regards scrapie (COM(1998) 623 - C4-0026/1999 - 1998/0324(COD))
Finally, it is essential that we slow down the logging of standing wood, in order to give priority to the purchase of windfalls.
The proposal to set up a European public prosecutor service is a very sensitive one.
At the moment, social policy is trailing well behind economic and employment policy.
You are perhaps aware that this hospital is located in the Northern part of the city and that, given the tense situation, Albanian Kosovars do not have any access to this section at all.
That makes sense from an economic and an ecological point of view.
My group, as Mr Kindermann has already said, will therefore vote tomorrow to change the legal base and I hope that other groups in this House will do likewise.
Mrs Stenzel' s report has, however, turned out very well, at least where the prescribed guidelines are concerned.
We need both a starting point and a final goal if we are to reverse the upward trend in pollution.
In the second, LIFE-Environment strand, which is more concerned with projects involving small and medium-sized enterprises and local government agencies, the incorporation of the environment in other policies is expressed very clearly indeed.
If they are proven not to be, we will put the case for more resources to the budgetary authority.
As liberals, we can support this concept when it means that we in the EU are to establish broad common objectives with which the individual countries then seek to comply by means of their own national social policies.
We see a further example of this with the planned layoffs in Europe proposed by the corporation ABB Alsthom Power.
We should really talk about coherence in the development policy in the presence of Mr Prodi, for example, who has missed a great chance right from the outset, for he has allowed the development cooperation policy to fragment over three Commissioners - and this is better than four, I have to admit - but this does not really make for a coherent policy.
Mr President, Commissioner, there is a risk of Central Asia and the Caspian Sea becoming the Balkans of the 21st Century.
Mr Corbett is raising issues the Council decision does not cover, and unfortunately we can go no further on those.
That, combined with the essential improvement of certain aspects of the internal situation in that country, in the area of minorities and democratic institutions, would round off the image of political maturity which FYROM has, in fact, presented in other respects and which has made our European family welcome closer relations with it.
.
(The President cut the speaker off)
Mr President, in the present joint draft resolution, paragraph 10 urges the Council and Member States - rightly so - to double their efforts so as to make the necessary manpower and resources available for the UN police units.
They are most likely to occur if there is little democratic control on cash flow.
What you have as a result are all these major trusts that cut jobs while their profits are high, and which often make staff redundant simply to make their share price rise on the stock market.
What has so far emerged is that the agenda has changed - and when the agenda changes, so too of course do the types of decisions made.
Mr President, Commissioner, there are just two questions which must be answered.
It will therefore be necessary to increase the quality of the programmes because the EAGGF is supposed to be an effective financial instrument.
We remain committed to eradicating the disease, an objective that will be beneficial for both the environment and the salmon-farming sector.
That is the context in which I want to consider the Commission's proposals.
Europe, as a major donor, has so far remained too passive with regard to Angola.
Therefore, Commissioner, you can go ahead.
In my opinion, this resolution contains a series of essential points, but I would like to stress one in particular, that is, the need for greater coordination between the European Union and the United Nations.
We must not forget that several tens of thousands of people are currently held in custody in the European Union without having stood trial and that, in some states, custody is abused and used as a means of extorting confessions.
I am a European and even a federalist.
The scope of the proposed amendment is therefore very limited.
I am very familiar with the programmes which you refer to.
Most assuredly I would like to be able to say that the examples I observe every day in my own country and in my own region, a very rural one, convince me that we can safely proceed to a new phase of liberalisation.
This crisis management will not be a strictly military affair but the military representatives and the Military Committee will be responsible for advising on the logistics of any humanitarian operations which may require the involvement of military forces.
Is it an unprofitable industry which we are discussing and which we really have to help by not imposing more taxes upon it?
I would like to thank the rapporteurs, particularly Mr Decourrière, for his sensitivity towards the regions and for accepting our amendments.
This could prevent local governments that are functioning in a short-sighted or insufficiently democratic way from neglecting their duty of input from the very start.
It is still not an insurmountable problem.
However, it is imperative that the EU speaks and acts as one, and threats of trade sanctions should strengthen rather than weaken our resolve.
Mrs Schleicher intimated earlier today that clean water was an unrealistic goal.
I am not one of those MEPs who thinks that it is essential to adopt "extremist" amendments at second reading with the sole aim of gaining room for manoeuvre in preparation for negotiations with the Council of Ministers.
In the case of unemployment benefits, we came across six restrictions and five improvements.
From now on, the information will be provided by means of an electronic system called CIRCA, to which the European Parliament will have access. This represents a real innovation, not only for us, but also - I am sure - for the Commission.
In my opinion, we now have to make a significant and urgent effort to confront new problems, also deriving from American legislation, which emphasise the safety of the transport of dangerous goods in the maritime sector.
This Chamber was not made for goods, it was not made for money.
Regarding sustainability indicators, the European Environment Agency is already working with the Commission on the issue.
I am talking about the introduction of cultural mainstreaming in all policy areas, about consolidating and improving the European dimension of training and education syllabuses and about networking training and education policies in Europe especially lifelong learning.
And I would also say this to you, Commissioner: please, deliver the beef even if it is British.
Unless the necessary means are secured to pursue environmental protection, there is no point on the one hand in continuing to raise the environmental awareness achieved in recent years, and on the other hand in incorporating the environmental dimension in other policies.
This is a task that has lasted three years, and on which we have been consulted, so to speak, as a matter of course, when this issue, as has already been stressed, comprises highly important formal and substantive facets, which called for a range of assessments, consultations, concerted actions and codecisions.
But I would also like to make it very clear that President Prodi made a commitment to this Parliament to introduce a new debate, as Mr Barón Crespo has reminded us, which would be in addition to the annual debate on the Commission' s legislative programme, on the broad areas of action for the next five years, that is to say, for this legislature.
In this particular case, I can assure you there was a large majority in favour of the directive which we have just voted on.
Their success has relied in great part on their enterprise, their dynamism and their flexibility.
Yet I believe that, as this debate has shown, we have to discuss the limits to competition in some areas.
I therefore, of course, support the European Parliament' s now giving the formal go-ahead to the Intergovernmental Conference.
Commissioner, the fact that this report is no longer controversial within Parliament does not mean that it has lost any of its crucial importance.
Air routes, ferry routes, train routes, bus routes, within and to these remoter areas are put out to tender. The bidder who offers to provide the specific service at a specific quality level and at the lowest subsidy level gets the contract.
This is due to the complexity of our own structures, but also to very real inconsistencies between sector policies and interests in the Member States.
Other directives will follow and I believe that the Committee on Agriculture is well placed to deal with them.
I must stress that interregional cooperation significantly encourages the involvement of local and regional authorities in the process of European integration.
Quite the reverse, in fact. At present, there is a whole raft of companies which make a living out of them, and a decent one at that.
Mr President, it is pleasing that, despite certain delays and problems, the peace negotiations are going on both between Israel and Palestine and between Israel and Syria.
- My party opposed this measure and the proposed amendments.
This applies both to the post and other sectors.
But the world of international finance is a dangerous one.
They see forests being cut down and deserts spreading.
Will it do the same to us?
It will form the framework for emergency assistance for combating war damage if such action should be needed.
It is on the last two that the elderly, in particular, depend.
The OSPAR objectives are now being drawn up.
How will the Commission, as keeper of the Treaties, guarantee that decisions are taken uniformly in matters of competition in London, Palermo, Helsinki and, soon, Budapest and Ankara?
I would like to express my sympathy with all those who are dealing with the consequences of the breaking up and sinking of the oil tanker Erika.
If car manufacturers need to bear the cost of recycling their cars, they will design these cars in such a way that they can be re-used more easily and more cheaply.
Mr President, the agreement we are debating today, as analysed by Mr Swoboda, which I hope we will adopt tomorrow, constitutes the second politically positive step, after the stability pact for the area.
The things that have given us cause for criticism are not so serious as to stop us wanting to help the people there.
It is therefore now becoming urgent for us to start considering how we can find financial resources to rebuild the infrastructure that has been destroyed and without which Mozambique cannot continue on the path towards development on which it set out a few years ago in such a promising way.
Forgive me Mr Poos.
The next item is the report (A5-0002/2000) by Mrs Theato, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, containing Parliament' s recommendations to the Commission on introducing protection under criminal law of the Union' s financial interests.
But there is an art to that as well.
(Loud, sustained applause from the centre and from the right, protests from the left)
Action is not limited to legislation.
These initiatives must also involve the participation of local authorities and local communities in an effort to identify where best European Structural Funds should be spent.
I regret the delay with which LEADER, as was the case with the other three initiatives, was presented to Parliament and for the knock-on delay this entailed for the whole procedure.
Fourthly, government debt is defined in accordance with ESA 95, as are the flows or interest stemming from assets/liabilities.
Looking at Amendment No 7, for example, which calls for the complete elimination of naturally occurring substances, you can see that some of the targets set are unrealistic.
You bear a huge responsibility because the pretext of ethnic cleansing is being used to spill blood in another bout of ethnic cleansing in Kosovo and yet you have stood up here, while blood is being spilled in Kosovo, and you have not said a word about it.
In brief, the European Union knows what to do in Macedonia: to help this local port of refuge - recently used by scores of war refugees - to fulfil its role properly as a catalyst for the planned Stability Pact in the Balkans.
Mr Wynn, that makes sense.
We accept that Europeans, particularly the younger generation, need to be given a broad perspective of where Europe will be in the years ahead.
The measures taken from time to time in the past have been fragmentary and therefore ineffective, and such provisions as have been made were dictated by parallel policies such as consumer protection, environmental policy, transport policy, taxation policy, etc., which very often are not only no help to tourism but on the contrary make it more difficult, since their introduction has usually entailed costs for the tourism industry without regard to its ability to bear them or its incentives to cope with them.
Even the positive contribution of the international financial institutions and high-level experts, who gave the benefit of their concerns and ideas, failed miserably to muster any support.
There is so much legislation - and I very much welcome the Portuguese programme that was outlined to us last week - but we need to be absolutely sure that it is scrutinised, that the people in this Parliament and the members of the national parliaments and the citizens of Europe are aware of everything involved in it.
However, the situation is hardly better for other parts of the population.
In this respect, the issue requires closer examination, because the sensitive situation in the Caucasus region could heighten people' s suspicions.
I believe that this report gives a clear method for dealing with Infectious Salmon Anaemia which is both practical, realistic and also achievable.
Mr President, in Kotka, in Finland, there is currently a vessel carrying chemicals, which is sailing under a flag of convenience.
Mr President, Mrs Schroedter' s report undoubtedly contains several important observations, and I would like to congratulate her on that.
Thank you very much, Mr Cox.
Mr President, it feels quite strange to be standing here again today, as I have been doing at regular intervals for almost ten years, and all because of an accident caused by human hand and by a lack of human competence, and not by force majeure.
I would particularly draw my colleagues' attention to this fact as we cannot make do with saying that a temperature of 27º has every advantage for the human race and that, consequently, there is no risk to men.
I would like to stress that culture is not only funded from this particular pot.
But we should draw the necessary conclusions from this.
Only the background level of the ocean is acceptable.
I am not sure that I can add very much at this stage to the analysis of what went wrong and what we can do better but obviously we must learn any lessons that are required from this terrible calamity.
Clearly we want to defend the countries of Europe but we also want to respect the autonomy of nations.
I believe that we will have to reach a compromise in this area between those who, rightly, are pushing for the communitisation of this policy and those who think that such advances should be the responsibility of the Intergovernmental Conference.
My urgent request, which has been echoed many times in resolutions, is the following: could you not confer so that observers can be sent to the Moluccas?
I should like to highlight certain measures which we are trying to introduce in another European region affected by immigration - the Canary Islands.
It is thus not confined to EC activities.
Despite their image of danger, derivatives are usually used by asset managers as insurance.
We wonder if this is actually feeding the flames of xenophobia and the parties and people that support it.
So what Mr Huhne wants is already possible.
I am glad to see that Parliament' s amendments have focused upon this.
For all programmes submitted before 30 April of this year it will be possible to backdate the beginning of the period of eligibility to 1 January.
I want to emphasise, however, that whilst internal discipline on priority-setting will certainly be introduced by the Commission, it can only be fully effective if Parliament and the Council share it and take an equally stringent attitude to the demands made on the Commission.
My second question concerns the burden of proof.
Mr President, the proposal we are discussing has a huge amount of advantages, mainly in the interests of preventing waste and encouraging re-use, the recovery and recycling of components and the recovery of materials, etc. I think we have tabled a sound proposal.
You reminded us of your speech in 1994, which you yourself qualify as slightly provocative, but there is such a thing as creative utopia and we have been able to gauge together how far we have come.
To this end, I shall confine myself to stressing, out of all the choices available, the importance of three priority decisions which should, in the drawing-up of action programmes for the government of the Union, be the basis for both the Commission' s agenda and the actions of the European Union in the coming months.
I will not repeat which ones, because everyone knows.
- (SV) In order to be able to influence developments, the European Parliament must adopt a more constructive attitude towards the agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference than emerges from the present resolution, which displays far too much disappointment and negativity about the decision which the European Council made in Helsinki in December 1999.
I would like more information on this, because the key question is how you can better serve the customer using the existing services.
Just a few little technical reports like this one on counterfeiting.
Once more we must remember that we are undergoing a continental project for political union.
However, I must make two essential points. These concern the simplification and application of Community law.
The Commission has put forward a new White Paper on this containing two key points: dropping the obligation to notify and retrodisplacement of law enforcement.
I should say that the pieces of legislation that we have identified are intended to close gaps in existing legislation.
In our opinion, the possibility put forward in the explanatory statement of this report of setting TACs in the Mediterranean is therefore inappropriate.
I very much hope that a compromise can be reached to overcome this so that the peace negotiations can be resumed at a very early date.
Question No 51 by (H-0049/00):
The European Commission must make good these omissions as soon as possible.
(The sitting was closed at 11.10 a.m.)
The implementation deadline for the Member States is January 2003.
The traffic which had to be diverted because of this stretched the patience of many thousands of people in the EU to the limit.
The Commission finds this worrying only from the point of view of the conditions of competition.
This commitment is important because the Commission is a body with a monopoly of initiative in accordance with the Treaties and, therefore, basically dictates this Parliament' s political and legislative activity for the next five years.
Surely it is now about time that not only the Member States but that toothless tiger that is known as the International Maritime Organisation, and last but not least, the oil companies and tanker owners take on their responsibilities by acting to stop these ecological and human tragedies repeating themselves year after year.
This own initiative must not be destroyed by European intervention.
We are very positive about the many improvements which have been made: no more mega-projects, room for cultural networks, and sufficient attention to promoting reading, translating and translation companies.
We want to continue along the successful European path to growth and employment and a functioning internal market, to hasten our progress and supplement this with the necessary measures.
One might well wonder if traditional industrial culture has been a particularly good thing, and I am therefore very happy that the Portuguese ministers are to participate very actively in the Lisbon Summit, which is, of course, to be partly concerned with IT developments.
So we must admit that developments in Macedonia have followed surprisingly continuous democratic lines.
The fact that the main responsibility for the peace process lies with the occupying country, Israel, does not prevent the Arab partners from also having a considerable share of the responsibility.
The other question I would like to ask is on the audit progress committee.
The code will be a document exclusively dealing with the relations of the Commission's administration with the public.
He was a member of the Basque regional parliament, spokesman for the Socialist Party in that parliament and also a former vice-president of the Basque regional government.
I hope that, once again, this House will vote with a sense of reality and respect for the principle of subsidiarity, seeking a suitable balance between the environmental objectives and economic and social considerations, the three essential elements in achieving the sustainable development which we all wish to see so much.
The first question, then, is about who should pay.
There have been extremely dynamic developments in relations between the Union and the Czech Republic following two European elections and a major new reform of the European Treaties.
Why not?
As for the amendments, I oppose the amendments tabled by Mr Hudghton' s Green colleagues, that is numbers 7 to 13, not because I do not care about the risks to human health but because, according to scientific evidence, the virus does not survive beyond 25o Celsius and according to medical evidence, human beings at that temperature are dead.
So, really, these bodies should already provide for a balance, and take into account the wishes of the union movement and environmental movement in the process.
That is excellent news!
We thank you for that.
Turning now to the question posed by Mr Alavanos, who I hope will pardon me for this brief diversion onto another subject, the Commission has been monitoring and will continue to monitor, during the preparation of the new programming period, the application of the partnership principle.
Parliament requires a code of conduct for Commissioners and Cabinets.
There is also the question of our overall policy on human rights and the relationship between human rights and foreign policy.
I say that in all earnestness and I have chosen my words carefully.
That is just the way things are, however.
The Member States have spent similar amounts.
Now, finally, the EU' s position is, of course, such that we can achieve high growth and seriously take up the fight against unemployment without jeopardising objectives such as price stability and a balanced budget.
We are proposing that decisions on certain policies or measures involving taxation or social protection and social security should be taken by qualified majority voting when there is a direct link with the proper operation of the internal market. Our proposal is not general or systematic.
In the French version that becomes 'entreprises pharmaceutiques et organisations scientifiques' .
It is better suited to handling such matters than telecommunications companies.
Should its implementation not be more strictly monitored?
It specifies that we must deal firstly and as a priority with the three basic issues which were left out in Amsterdam.
The European car population amounts to several tens of millions of cars which will have to be recovered even though they were not designed for recycling.
Just the example of the privatisation of British rail services should suffice to prove the extent to which opting for maximum profit is antipathetic to maintaining a socially useful service.
I cannot therefore accept paragraph 4 in the joint resolution, and I cannot vote in favour of the resolution, even though it would be a vote against the extreme right.
We cannot forget old car enthusiasts either, of whom there are more than 50 000 in Finland alone.
The fruits of the intellect and science, which are intangible, are of inestimable importance. Therefore, the European Community should be more energetic in providing practical encouragement, not just through upholding patents but through concessions and other forms of support for scientists who are striving, through the knowledge and experience they have acquired, to give future generations something better than that which they have today.
We would like to make two recommendations arising from the establishment of OLAF and which should safeguard its operational and legal efficiency, transparency, and the protection of the rights of individuals.
For example, you did not go into antibiotics.
But tomorrow will be too late.
It seems contradictory.
Now we all accept that there is a problem in conservation and a problem of stocks, but what I am really saying to you Commissioner, and I have said this to you in the Fisheries Committee and I will say it to you again: There is a wide divide between Brussels and the working fishermen.
Report (A5-0032/2000) by Mr Corrie, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the results of the work of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly in 1999
The only proposal which has been made is for the directive on family reunification. This is a key issue, as we have seen recently in the media that there are many men on their own in El Ejido.
This basic principle of liberalisation, increased competition and greater investment opportunities, together with prudence to ensure the protection which investors deserve, has determined and inspired my Group' s position on most of the controversial points which have arisen.
I support calls to ensure that the classification societies effectively monitor vessels' structural conditions and are held accountable for their actions.
WIPO treaty
It seems absolutely disgraceful that we pass legislation and do not adhere to it ourselves.
Mr President, it gives me great pleasure to give you the floor.
This is the intention behind the question and we must then follow the ordinary procedures of reports from committees and plenary debate in order to reach a balanced and really forward-looking proposal.
The event proves that in some countries applying for EU membership the environmental norms and environmental thinking are still light years behind the EU.
I believe that we should not jump to conclusions here about who is responsible, because there are various protagonists involved.
The European Union posting of workers directive stipulates that the compulsory rules concerning the terms and conditions of employment applicable in the host country must also apply to workers posted to that country.
Their efficiency has been truly remarkable.
In the Sunday papers all over Greece: the Ministry of Public Works concerning the structural fund: the Minister' s work; the Ministry of Agriculture: the Minister' s work - just a few weeks before the elections - the Ministry of Telecommunications: the work of the Minister for Telecommunications; the Ministry of Education: the work of the Minister for Education and a photograph of the Minister; the Ministry of Employment: the work of the Minister for Employment, a photograph of the Minister and a photograph of the State Secretary, and behind them all the symbols of the Community Support Framework.
B5-0173/2000 by Mr Papayannakis and Mr Sjöstedt on behalf of the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left,
I hope this signals a new era of hope for Cyprus.
Mrs Berger, in your Amendment No 2 to Recital 6, you mention legal security.
I can only fully share your concern.
Question No 38 by (H-0040/00):
It has been used by the Community for some time now in a range of policy areas, environmental, human, animal and plant health; and it is explicitly mentioned in the environmental provisions of the EC Treaty since Maastricht.
It is the governments of the Member States who have restricted the amount of leeway to this degree.
Measures taken must be proportional to the chosen level of protection - that is, we do not use the sledgehammer to crack a nut.
In particular, we will make known the flexibility that both parties have demonstrated on this issue.
In my view, Mr Prodi, judging from the text and the document that you had sent to us, one subject that is very important to both of us has been given secondary importance, and that is solidarity, not so much at international level as at internal level.
The main purpose of the first proposal is to extend the investment opportunities of collective investment undertakings by allowing them to invest in units in other collective investment undertakings, for example units in funds, standardised options and futures contracts and deposits in credit institutions and in certain types of money market instruments.
Nowadays, there are many, perhaps too many, treaties on human rights. If those treaties remain mere expressions, they are no more than useless depositories of people's thoughts.
In the new programme submitted for the period from 2000 to 2006, which is being financed from the Social Fund, both the resources and the policies should be used, with the Commission' s support, to implement the objectives which I referred to earlier.
The first concerns the manufacturer' s unrestricted liability to take back end-of-life vehicles.
Remember too, some countries blocked an agreement with South African trade for four years.
- I am grateful for a clear answer though naturally a little disappointed by its content.
The Parliament services asked to meet with the assistants yesterday to make the necessary physical arrangements.
Clearly, governments are often more sensitive to the interests of realpolitik and to commercial, geostrategic or economic interests.
I would like to make one general point on politics. Whatever we may say about the European elections, the low turnout is a fact.
Is it sufficient to provide information and training and to create practical conditions or should we give preferential treatment, much like the quota system for the electoral lists of the political parties?
Yesterday, we also discussed the Commission, represented by Commissioner Barnier, who gave its opinion.
We would prefer the future framework directive not to subject the implementation of transfers to Community supervision.
I make no apology for this approach; I firmly believe that it is the correct one.
Trade union representatives sit on the Disciplinary Board and the Staff Regulations Committee, thereby making it impossible to remove disloyal officials and preserving the Staff Regulations in their fossilised state.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and welcome the contents of this report.
The international community has thus indicated that it rejects any act accomplished by force.
Resources should therefore be set aside from category seven, where a review of the financial perspectives must be carried out.
Plus, this branch of the economy is one of the few sectors in which Europe has fully integrated powers to decide and act, which is why we expect to be given a right of codecision here too.
We need a body of food law, as you have said, and we need to agree this together.
Women appear to be completely absent from all areas, especially development policy when, of course, we are not in reality absent at all.
It is absolutely essential to put an end to this floodtide of irresponsibility, irresponsible charterers, untraceable shipowners and lenient certification companies.
Would you be so kind as to bear with me for a few minutes.
Democracy, transparency and clarity always lead to results, citizens value results and this is what the Commission is judged on.
However, I do not consider a three-month period of employment to be sufficient to prove that an employee is resident in a Member State.
Deploying the German multipurpose ship "Neuwerk" - it is right outside my front door in Cuxhaven - entailed the swift provision of European neighbourly help.
It is therefore necessary to modernise competition policy.
The next item is the report (A5-0004/2000) by Mrs van der Laan, on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control, on giving discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the European Communities for the 1997 financial year (Section I - Parliament, II - Council, III - Commission, IV - Court of Justice and V - Court of Auditors) [SEC(1998) 520 - C4-0350/1998, SEC(1998) 522 - C4-0351/1998, SEC(1998) 519 - C4-0352/1999]
I would thank the Commissioner for her answer.
How can the reform process help make the relationship and cooperation between the European Parliament, the national parliaments and also the Commission, and the work they perform together, more effective?
We must define a macro-economic policy which aids growth.
I take it from paragraph 10 that the underlying preoccupation of honourable Members is that there should be a carefully managed transition.
Therefore, our task is to make the requirements in the directive tighter and more concrete.
The other candidate countries (e.g. Cyprus, Turkey, Malta) my also take part in LIFE when agreements permitting such participation are signed with these countries.
We also need to reform archaic management methods which create injustices, chaos and waste.
Community law must not go unapplied because it is too complex or too pedantic.
Instead, there is a need for proper internal control and the ability to sack people more easily.
One of the reasons for the Community' s interest is the structural flexibility of this sector of the employment market, which explains its attractiveness for women and young people, to whom it often offers their first experience of employment.
Mr Prodi reverts to the contested concept of 'governance' ; contested because it favours state intervention over a proper working democracy and refers to the notion as defined by the IMF, whose ideological agenda is predicated solely on liberalism and monetarism.
We need more joined-up policy making on these issues.
Recently, the immunity of a former Commissioner was lifted and proceedings are currently pending before a judge in Brussels on the basis that Brussels is the seat of the Community institutions.
Neither the preamble nor the body of the text takes proper account of the rights of the defence, a basic principle of international fundamental rights.
The rapporteur, Mr Koch, to whom we express our thanks for the work which he has done on this, has already pointed out that basically everything could have been somewhat more advanced had it not been for the inactivity on the part of the CEN, which has been very dilatory in drawing up and adapting the directive.
But why do they not buy their own entrance ticket?
First of all, on Kosovo, the Commission fully shares the concerns expressed in these draft resolutions as regards general policy towards Kosovo, as regards the continuing ethnic violence and as regards the prisoners in Serb jails.
This means that the basic principle must be that the price should represent the real cost of the water used.
I think that a strategic decision of this sort can be taken at European level.
As recently as 1991 and 1992 the Commission won a battle with the UK over additionality, at that time linked to the RECHAR funding.
I saw the newly-elected President Georgievski a few weeks ago and I was extremely impressed, as others have been, by his commitment to multi-ethnicity and pluralism.
Doubtless our citizens would say something along the lines of 'to defend the countries of Europe better' , since that is the traditional and primordial purpose of political associations.
In general where the employment policy measures are concerned it would seem to me to be necessary for appointments to the joint cooperation committee to be made on a regional basis - because the local expertise required for these specific purposes is only available at regional level - so as to avoid these measures becoming too abstract and therefore proving disappointing.
This has been an appalling tragedy for Europe and Europe has to respond and do all it can to ensure that incidents as dreadful as this do not continue to blight our future.
A5-0087/1999 by Mr Jonckheer, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, on the seventh survey on state aid in the European Union in the manufacturing and certain other sectors. [COM(1999) 148 - C5-0107/1999 - 1999/2110(COS)] (Report 1995-1997);
As this is an issue which has become important in the justice and home affairs programme, the presidency believes that it is worthwhile, bearing in mind the principles of Chapter VI of the Treaty, to explore suitable means of providing the European Parliament with improved information on the progress and conclusion of these negotiations under the United Nations Convention.
Human labour, on the other hand, is considered to be a simple factor in the equation.
I want to ask the Council if it understands this warning, in view of what we have now seen in the working documents from the Commission.
We have had our problems and we recognised difficulties but there was not a situation where this bureaucratic Commission was mistrusted, doubted and feared by the citizens of the European Union because they were mismanaging our affairs.
Cultures are products of structures and systems, and the structures and systems have become old.
However, we must stick to the facts.
The objective is to provide a framework and tool to support and enhance economic regeneration, to get the most effective use of resources in the widest partnership and to put these regions back on the road to recovery and sustainable development so that eventually they come off the regional life-support machine.
As the Court of Justice recognised in 1996, the steel industry is particularly sensitive to competition-related disturbances.
By definition, investment funds use other people' s money.
I believe we should set the seal on this point at tomorrow' s vote.
It will, I hope, be examined in a positive light.
This is, and will continue to be, connected with developments within the World Trade Organisation.
The aim of this convention, which came into force on 24 October 1996, is precisely to achieve and maintain a high standard of nuclear safety at world level by means of national measures and through international cooperation.
I know that these are very important issues in Spain and there are differing viewpoints.
They concern access to training, the ratio of men to women with access to training, and special action for the long-term unemployed.
I also deplore the fact that the European Parliament has been totally excluded from the Advisory Committee on State Aid.
The shift in meaning is not just semantic... The only logical thing to do on reading this document is to pursue the mass market and generalised deregulation and forget about the realignment of European policy which our citizens hoped for.
What expectations does the Commissioner have that the new Intergovernmental Conference which is starting will include this aspect?
It is sound framework conditions and not state intervention that enables enterprises to create growth and employment.
I was pleased to hear the statement which Commissioner Fischler has just made, and I take careful note of the commitments he made before this House.
At the end of six months I hope that the music is still playing and that the European people are still listening.
So I sympathise very much with what the honourable Member has said.
It is patently clear that Africa has become the forgotten continent.
The very political essence of the reform is mirrored in the objectives of this five-year plan.
The problem is not that only 25% are inspected, but rather how we select, how we find, the ships which constitute the highest risk, through the age of the ships and the risk history of the flags.
The Council has quoted examples of inconsistency time after time: in agriculture, commerce, in conflict prevention, in the peace operations, in the fisheries sector, migration and environment.
We have enough agreements; they just need to be implemented.
Mr President, I would like to begin by joining those who congratulated the rapporteur on this work.
For who can believe for one moment that private firms, motivated only by profit, will continue to provide services in high-cost areas unless the costs are borne by the already disadvantaged inhabitants who are not, therefore, in a position to take advantage of the service.
It further aims to ensure that nuclear installations are equipped with continuing protection against potential radiological risks, so as to protect individuals, society at large and the environment against the harmful effects of the ionising radiation that can be emitted by such installations.
I welcome the fact that grant aid of 40% and a top-up of 15% for SMEs for fixed investment will be permitted for companies setting up in Objective 1 regions in Europe post-2000.
They are expecting us not to fall in with globalisation but rather, on the basis of our social model, to be able to organise globalisation.
According to these, for example, the meagre fisheries budget should have to finance artistic heritage or encourage tourism at sea.
I also feel positive about the essence of the communication, namely the strategic approach.
The changes in financial management and control will greatly enhance the possibility of doing all of that.
Have you received any notification of any Members leaving the Group of the European People's Party or does the Austrian People's Party continue to sit in that political group?
As in Spain in April 1998, as in Brittany and the Vendée since last December, once again an exceptional natural site is under serious threat.
The amendment proposed under paragraph 1 has, in our view, been overtaken by events because, following consultations with the representatives of the Member States in the STAR Committee, this point has already been reworded along the lines proposed by Parliament.
Finally, this discharge report is naturally addressed to the Commission. But this does not detract from the fact that the European Parliament should also put its own house in order.
If we see in the development of that nuclear power plant that there are concerns about safety we will discuss it with Turkey.
The fact that, due to the absence of sufficiently reliable and scientific statistical data, the tourist industry is in effect an unknown quantity has greatly limited the prospects of pursuing a consistent policy in this area and creating employment on a wider scale.
My second point is that we need a properly resourced Commission.
Parliament would, of course, welcome this with open arms. If this were possible, it would be a huge, historic victory.
I would just like to say a word or two myself on that particular subject.
During the vote tomorrow, we can make it clear that Europe is drafting a responsible and future-orientated water policy.
- The Schroedter report speaks of the need to promote partnerships with regard to the spending of EU Structural Funds in Europe for the period 2000-2006.
In my opinion, it is far too easy to sit down with the military and gather up all the military equipment, which are such nice toys, after all.
The report is hereby withdrawn from the agenda.
There are, however, one or two aspects about which I have doubts as to whether or not we are being too specific.
The implementation of the directive on statistics aims at improving the knowledge of market structures and trends in European tourism and its industry.
Two types of measure are required for this purpose. The first should seek the integration of people of non-European origin and the other should aim to organise immigration.
There may be a number of views on that.
Mr President, there is a great lack of transparency in the area of security, freedom and justice.
There is one final issue I would like to raise.
We must congratulate Prime Minister Jospin for ratifying this commitment in the clearest and most categorical manner.
If Syria would be willing to offer concessions on the security question then the prospects of a successful resolution to the Israel/Syria question might be promising.
Mr President, I should like to raise a point of order in relation to the activities organised today by the Association of Parliamentary Assistants in support of their call for a statute for assistants to be adopted as soon as possible.
The low rate Tobin tax would not cause tax-recycling problems.
Moreover, I have been informed that the Commission has approved a report - today of all days - on the reform of the Commission which will be distributed for further consultation to the various institutions and also to our Parliament, I hope.
The overall result is remarkable and I hope that the Council will fully take it into account.
Are there any comments?
This is patently not the case, since such a quota would not be realistic.
This crisis of confidence has also had the unfortunate but inevitable effect of eroding the trust of consumers in the systems and institutions at national and European level that should monitor and assure the highest standards of food safety.
Mr Beazley, my answer is clearly yes but that is no surprise.
Indeed when the plan was initially drawn up they said it would be restricted to cases of fraud against the EU budget.
I would like to thank the presidency for the comprehensive answer to my question, and indeed the Minister who spoke to the Committee on Development last week in Brussels outlining the position.
The first is asylum.
Will it bring it up with the Greek Government or will we persist with the pathological situation we had with the previous Commission?
The functionalist approach is over, for better or for worse.
The political leaders of Europe are entitled to express their view of political developments in another Member State, just as a prime minister can express his opinion about racist politicians in a local authority.
The company' s failure to inform the works council about the proposals for the merger is particularly worrying.
Now to my fourth point regarding the policy; enlargement of the Union, the great political and humanist project of the coming years for our institutions, the major challenge, too, for the European policy on cohesion, a point which Mr van Dam highlighted.
You spoke in your paper of decentralisation and subsidiarity.
The first point on which we disagree is the duration of three months for the residency permit, since all that does is create legal insecurity.
Consequently, we see poverty and exclusion as the greatest enemies of peace and freedom.
Madam President, on a point of order.
We have before us Malta and Cyprus, which are two States keen to become members.
The next item is the annual report (A5-0032/2000) by Mr Corrie, on behalf of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, on the results of the activities of the ACS-EU Joint Assembly in 1999.
These discussions essentially cover four areas: security, the structure of government, territorial adjustments and issues relating to refugees and compensation, as a result of the situation following the partition of the island.
(The sitting was suspended at 1.23 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
It is obviously the Commission' s intention to make the financial control officials subordinate to the individual Directorates-General, but this is precisely what we do not want.
I do not suppose that anybody in this House would object to the principle of protecting juveniles of marine organisms.
They were bravely dealing then with huge environmental and political problems, with the problems of poverty and the consequences of a bloody war.
Although the virus has been found in other species, the disease itself is so far confined to salmon.
We agree that they ought to be indicative in nature, allowing the maximum flexibility to ensure that we target specific programmes.
I do not use those as an excuse.
My group will be supporting Amendment No. 22.
In view of this, in accordance with the decision on the 97/99 guidelines (Howitts report), the Commission should have consulted Parliament in time. In fact, it found a sort of convenient excuse in the shortening of the programming stage in the Member States, and it published the guidelines back in July 1999, even before the new Parliament had taken up its legislative duties, thereby preventing Parliament itself from having any influence on the current content of the guidelines.
Parliament voted in favour of this text.
The acceleration of technological progress and the increasing competitive pressure of globalising markets are pushing companies to rapidly adapt their production and company structures.
In addition to the proposals for a new European food authority and an enhanced control system at Community-level, the White Paper proposes an action plan with a wide range of measures to improve and bring coherence to the Community's legislation, covering all aspects of food products from farm to table.
Over the coming months, that is to say during the Portuguese Presidency, this debate will of course be enriched by the contributions that the Commission has undertaken to present to us.
We therefore feel it is crucial that as Amendments Nos 5 and 6 seek to establish as objectives which LIFE-Environment should achieve a plan for the sustainable management of ground water and surface water, as well as for reducing greenhouse gases, they should be adopted.
I must point out in this respect that it was the numerous amendments tabled and approved in our committee and the flexibility shown by Mr Katiforis which enabled his report to be approved by our committee.
We therefore need to reflect on this at length and with an open mind, and all the institutions - Commission, Parliament, Council - will have to consider their own roles and their own policies.
What will happen to a place like Scotland, which I represent here?
This is also the case for the so-called statutory government which is just as guilty, because if this journalist has accused the President himself of deriving benefit from this civil war, then all he is doing is voicing what the entire world knows already and which is being passed on to every tribal district across Africa.
This means that it is the manufacturer which should take full responsibility, financial as well as otherwise, for recycling vehicles.
As for fishing, there is nothing in your programme to tell us that the predatory exploitation of fishing grounds, which has gone as far as to wipe out entire species of fish, will certainly prove fruitful in the future.
But given this situation, which is so tragic for the people of Mozambique, we must not fail to provide an effective and appropriate response to the appeals of Mozambique' s leaders, both those in the government and those in opposition, who, out of a sense of responsibility, have resisted from resorting to violence again as a means of solving their problems.
The new company has announced its intention to initiate a restructuring plan with the aim of making savings.
In particular, I have drawn attention to the need to study the extent and effect of interaction between farmed and wild salmon, the need to investigate the source of ISA and the need to test more widely for the virus in wild stocks.
Next, we all too often see vast sums of money being spent on projects whose outcomes will necessarily be unclear at the start of the programme period.
This aid is considerably less than the previous period, 1993-1995 (a 13% drop in the total amount and a drop from 3.8% to 2.6% in the amount of aid to the manufacturing sector).
I cannot show you the television programmes here but I can show you the Greek newspapers from a few weeks before the elections.
How do you think that public confidence in ourselves as politicians would be affected if a situation were to arise in which we obtained the right to use services where we live - education, health care etc - but, at the same time, did not pay any tax and did not contribute?
Court of First Instance
However, we must remember that the public opinion of 370 million people in the European Union is a vital factor in changing the EU treaties.
Where else do 86 nations come together to discuss matters of mutual concern?
Moreover - and Mr Miller has already pointed this out - it will surely not be the end of the world if the postman no longer comes round, even in my country, however densely populated it may be.
It is not the European Parliament' s business to express an opinion on which factories in the European Union' s 15 Member States are to remain in place and which are to be shut down; to expand their work forces or reduce them; stay in the same location or else move; be sold or not be sold; and, in the case of those which are to be sold, to comment on whether they are to be sold to companies within or outside Europe.
I should further like to express major reservations with regard to the exaggerated tendency which, in the Commission communication with reference to INTERREG III and III B, involves associating environmental protection exclusively with the development of Natura 2000, which I think is often an excessively abstract means of safeguarding ecosystems, from which users are in danger of being excluded or severely restricted.
In so doing, it will have proved its usefulness to public opinion which, in this instance, is awaiting clear, tangible action.
There is a reference to applicant states and that is something that we have in mind.
(Parliament gave its assent)
Finally, I should like to emphasise that in order to address the problems facing the post-industrial city we require local participation.
So far as the September communication is concerned, it is unprecedented.
The Commission ought to consider devising a special action programme concerning social policy in connection with enlargement.
It is, of course, a peace process which is finally under way.
Also, in order to attain our objectives, to overcome the disparities between regions and to seek out sources of employment, it is crucial to give our complete support to new technologies, to transport and communications networks and to renewable energies.
This provides a safeguard to ensure that the necessary resources will continue to be available.
The UN has a peace plan.
Even though the socialists, now that there are so many social democratic governments, talk much less about unemployment than they used to, the unemployment in question is still high, and this in spite of the trade boom.
In my region of the UK in particular the employment consequences of this merger have been severe as a result of ABB-Alsthom having announced that it was cutting 270 jobs in Britain with 95 jobs being lost in Stafford and 112 in Rugby.
It is therefore essential that the Commission launches an information campaign on the CFP with this message.
In my own country, Sweden, one of our biggest export industries is affected, namely the music and sound recording industry.
The Commission must track down the illegal aid and the aid which actually hinders the internal market.
It is more and more rare to see companies embark on damaging restructuring operations ignoring these fundamental concerns, as unfortunately was sometimes the case in the past.
Mr President, we have already had this discussion so many times in the past.
I call upon you, ladies and gentlemen, to support me in bringing home to the Commission the fact that what most Brussels offices are lacking is not so much the wherewithal for providing aid as the good will.
I know it takes longer, but should we not always have a show of hands first?
None of the subsequent evidence or analysis has overturned that original assessment.
It must, however, be stressed that the guidelines under discussion are related only to the Structural Funds, whose Objectives 1 and 2 specifically adopt the diversification of rural society as a priority.
Amendment No 71 does not take account of seasonal variations and annual changes in the level of the groundwater.
So further thought is necessary.
Allow me to make two fundamental comments at this juncture. As the competent authority, the Commission, with its logically consistent approach, has again and again served the cause of freedom of competition, not always to the delight of the Member States or enterprises concerned.
Indeed, we still have not managed to stop passing on the burden to future generations.
(In successive votes, Parliament adopted both legislative resolutions)
To this new labour market there must be a response in the programmes of tourism schools and training programmes for company staff, including programmes for training the unemployed and their re-introduction to work.
We are all therefore duty-bound to seek to match our policies better to this objective of achieving greater stability and greater balance in the various parts of our planet.
Nevertheless, Mr Bolkestein is convinced that the studies undertaken provide enough clarity and precision to form the basis of the decision-making process.
Tell me, what civilian forces are being mobilised, Mr Patten?
With the discovery and, certainly, the exploitation of black gold - and, later on, uranium and oil - all possible means were used to remove these people from their land and to send them to regions with few prospects other than poverty, hardship and contamination.
Finally, in relation to the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the citizens of Europe need to have a vision of citizenship.
I would therefore like once again to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Langen, on his work, to thank the speakers and, of course, to acknowledge the actions of Vice-President Provan throughout the conciliation procedure, who contributed efficiently to the achievement of a positive result.
I agree completely.
You wanted and have obtained the abolition of internal borders. Consequently, you have opened Europe up to an explosion in crime and insecurity and to a flood of uncontrolled immigration.
Apart from a few exceptions, the Members of the Group of the European People' s Party will vote in favour of the committee' s amendments, and of course our own.
Take, for example, the car manufacturing sector, where subsidies and state aid of various sorts have increased by 24% during the reference period.
I therefore propose, in agreement with the rapporteur, Mr Olle Schmidt, that the words 'issued by' be replaced with 'dealt with' throughout Amendment No 37.
The United States of America will be tabling a draft resolution on China at the 56th session of the Human Rights Commission and are putting pressure on the European Union to support this draft resolution.
It is right for us to have a focused report which is what Mr van Hulten has produced.
I think it is a first-class report which will, for the most part, be supported by my group.
Modern computer equipment can be used to cause a very great deal of damage if we do not protect ourselves.
We again urged the Chinese to begin a dialogue with the Dalai Lama.
on the environmental disaster caused by cyanide leaking from a Romanian goldmine into the Lepos, Somes, Tisza and Danube Rivers.
I feel this is one area where Europe can play a very active role, even if only in providing the conduit for exchange of experience and best practice among the Member States.
Which is why the new 20-year agreement due to be signed in Fiji on 31 May represents more than the simple renewal of the Conventions regulating relations between Europe and the ACP.
What is more, I do not believe, Mrs Karamanou, that the military action in Kosovo resulted in such a significant destruction of public health facilities as to have had a direct impact on the current situation.
In the words of rapporteur Mr Di Pietro, the proposal even contains colossal shortcomings.
I would like to take this opportunity to help you recognise them.
War is threatening to break out again in the Gulf.
In 1999, we also presented a communication on victims of crime in the European Union, which led to discussions that were given greater impetus at Tampere. This communication called for minimum standards for protecting the victims of crime, in particular as regards their access to justice and their rights to compensation, including the cost of justice.
I would quote the PHARE programme as an example.
The debate is a deeply political one.
But I think that this is exactly what we have to make up for here in Parliament, in order to demonstrate that we will not allow the credibility of our policy to be lost or compromised.
This is especially important to smaller linguistic areas. I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and also Mrs Reding for Culture 2000.
We are looking, therefore, within the Structural Funds programme not just to see industrial restructuring but also to see a wider improvement in the whole of the economic base within the Principality.
Thank you, Commissioner.
That is why sweeping reforms are necessary and, hence, a widened IGC agenda.
These are nevertheless minor flaws, which the rapporteur did not want and which - I hope - will be remedied when this Chamber comes to vote.
I do not think, however, that this report has come too late.
This is very positive as this is how the national parliaments, on which the governments depend, will continue to show that their democratic mandate is indispensable to European construction.
We have received reports from human rights organisations saying that Russian soldiers killed and apparently even executed citizens - I am talking about old men and women - in Grozny.
I agree with the rapporteur on two issues.
Food safety must take absolute priority over feedingstuffs in all our discussions.
We already have an infrastructure.
80 percent of it was landed by purse seine.
Decisions were taken at this summit which are fundamental for foreign and security policy in our continent.
(Parliament approved the legislative resolution)
However, our current situation is as follows: at 11.3%, we have the second highest unemployment in Europe, which was not previously the case, we have the biggest increase in unemployment, we spend less than anyone else on the unemployed, i.e. less than 1% of GDP, while other countries, such as France, Belgium and Germany spend 3-4%, and it is not clear how the money received from the Social Fund has been used, inter alia, to combat unemployment.
It seems that European industry is more important here than our own principles, our own coherences and the interests of the developing countries.
Its purpose is to combat discrimination in the workplace.
To allow the public sector to take the necessary significant lead in investment policy, the Council would indeed have to sacrifice some of its most sacred cows.
Mr President, I think we should firstly express our sorrow for the victims.
The LEADER Community initiative was launched in 1991 to promote a new bottom-up approach to rural development and to diversify measures by adapting them to local needs.
Mr President, the passion that the previous speakers have acknowledged in Mr Katiforis, in my view, only served to call on the European Parliament to respond to the hope of dozens of millions of unemployed people, social outcasts and those living a precarious existence in our European Union.
I understand that Europe and the civilised world wants to have as little as possible to do with such a government.
The financial amount finally allocated to the programme is also a considerable improvement on the Council' s proposal at second reading which we found completely unacceptable and we have made quite a lot of progress there.
A government must have more nerve and more courage.
With the Israelis we have established closer cooperation in a number of areas of particular interest to them.
We are well aware of this current economic context and that the purpose of restructuring is to rationalise corporate management.
I feel that these parameters - particularly those of a qualitative nature, resulting from investments in continuous training, refresher courses, adaptability and retraining of older workers - are considerably more significant and binding owing to their lasting effects over the medium term than the simple drawing up of annual quantitative objectives, that are always debatable, regarding new employment or employment cuts.
Although the Steel Aid Code is expressed in a very clear way, the Commission has authorised granting steel companies aid which is not covered by the categories stipulated by the Code.
Repeating my thanks to each and every one of you, and also particularly to Arlene McCarthy and Francis Decourrière, I should like to point out that these two initiatives lie within a financial framework with which you are familiar: only EUR 700 million for URBAN, but this is better than nothing; EUR 4 billion 800 millions for INTERREG.
We are not taking the kind of action that the citizens want to see.
Fascism and neo-Nazism are cancers!
The majority of the amendments approved by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection meet these objectives. I hope they will be supported by this House.
To the rapporteur' s regret, I must unfortunately point out that our Group cannot support Amendment No 3 because we consider that it restricts creditors' legal position and impairs their legal protection.
It therefore follows that any proposal which suggests major reform of the machinery for competition policy enforcement must be closely and carefully examined.
Mr Rapkay' s report also emphasises the importance of the international dimension with regard to competition law.
The Union has finally accepted the idea that dialogue cannot be genuine or effective unless it is the expression of a contract which respects the dignity of the partners.
I very much appreciate it that the Commission always attends.
European agriculture would not, for example, be able to grow bread grain with a high enough protein content for it to be used for making bread.
For example, one wonders how a development partnership will prove its cooperative spirit or its representative capacity, as required by action 2 in paragraph 33 of the guidelines.
Nevertheless, we must look at this resolution, and this is also something that the United Nations Security Council will probably have to do sooner or later. We will have to do so because, as has happened in the past in other contexts and in other strategically important situations across the world, we must be in a position to assess a certain kind of process, and a certain kind of logic and balance - which were in fact the logic and the balance which led to this resolution being approved - should be maintained in future.
Mr President, since 1996, the discharge has acquired a heavy, political significance.
We wholeheartedly support, at national level, many of the ideas presented in Mr Andersson' s report.
Of course, we are also talking about effectiveness of decisions and functioning institutions in a Union of 27 plus Member States.
For example, a management company might be doing underwriting business and, if not able to sell, it would put the securities in the fund it would manage, or else there might be difficulties in which order business should be executed if the management company did brokering business.
This debate and the amendment of the directive currently in force allow us to incorporate differentiating elements which demonstrate the diversity of this Europe of ours.
Man and culture are priorities, and culture can result in economic growth.
Shipowners and fishermen from the countries most active in fishing are more concerned than anyone about respecting their means of living, for without it, the future of this sector cannot be guaranteed.
These are sound, first steps which illustrate that, if this Parliament so wishes, changes are not only possible but can also be translated into action quickly.
We are not trying to deceive anyone and we are in no way trying to use practical solutions to create a model implying political recognition.
That does not suggest any lack of commitment to the improvement of human rights but it does indicate the usual concern to get our approach right so that we really make a difference.
Finally, I should like to mention a few political conclusions which you are, in any case, familiar with, but whose main elements I should like to reiterate.
It is the Tisza, Hungary' s second river, perhaps its most beautiful and most loved by its people, that has borne the brunt.
It has been submitted to Parliament and we expect Parliament' s opinion next month.
That is the goal which we have to work towards.
All workers in the fishing, fish farming and aquaculture sectors have already been hit hard.
We would gain a great deal if we managed to export this model to the rest of the western Balkans with the help of the Macedonians.
At the same time they call for the existence of an independent body to coordinate and monitor the thoroughness of investigations by OLAF, without harming the administration of justice by each Member State and under the supervision of the European Court of Justice.
Mr President, I am very happy to be able to say this to the Portuguese Presidency because it has earned great respect in this Assembly.
Since I was brought up to believe that the victory of ideals needs to be organised, I may be able to make an appeal to her to understand and support our mechanistic view of this because it is for the great and central purposes of the Union and its enlargement.
The report warned that the forthcoming process would lead to restrictions upon the transparency of the Member States.
Today, we are already discussing the Austrian coalition government' s policy on refugees because Mrs Stenzel, who is the author of the EQUAL report, of course represents Austria' s governing conservative party and its policy.
These are two of the principal challenges for the Lisbon Summit.
I do not want to drag up the issue of this building endlessly, but this is a serious problem.
In rural areas, for many years, even before the Irish Free State came into existence, we sometimes had this service of a post office.
Are you able to confirm that holidaymakers will be able to swim safely in the Adriatic this summer, and are there any measures in the pipeline for ascertaining what the dangers might be in this respect?
However, let me reflect that concern by referring to three controversial issues: the death penalty, Cuba and China.
And when that day comes, it is too late.
What the stricken populations are waiting for now, those who have lost everything, particularly among those who made their living from the sea and from tourism, those people whose businesses have been compromised for several years to come, is not for the polluters to repair the damage they have caused, but for the gears to now be set in motion to ensure that their present misfortune serves to prevent similar crimes affecting other people in future.
I also want to see something about women in the report I hope the Commission will produce.
The Portuguese Presidency shares many of this Parliament' s aspirations and has committed itself to doing everything it can to ensure that the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference is widened to include other essential issues.
The other issue is access to confidential documents.
I should also like to make a few comments, firstly, Mr Berend, regarding the assessment you have made of this sixth periodic report.
The Commission also agrees with a provision for cases in which the contract of employment between the service provider and his employer is terminated at short notice.
Our citizens cannot understand that we are deregulating air traffic, but leaving 15 different sectors in the skies which are under national control, which have an adverse economic impact on the airlines and which pollute the environment.
Unlike a number of Member States, the European Union has promised only very limited aid so far.
Mr Hudghton has already referred to the final report of the UK joint government industry working group on ISA and the measures there are of relevance for fish farming wherever it happens, not just in farms affected by ISA.
Thank you for your reply.
In conclusion, with thanks for your understanding, Mr President, I should like to thank you, Mrs Schroedter, for the quality of your work and that of the committee, and to tell you that I am very pleased, apart from a few differences in our assessments of the role of the guidelines. We have discussed this and I have attempted to clarify my point of view.
There does not seem to be any emphasis on the fight against AIDS in the programme.
The vote will be taken later this evening.
In any case, the precautionary principle requires these products to be clearly traceable at all stages of their marketing.
Thirdly, I raise the problem faced by Scotch whisky.
There is therefore a need for an in-depth analysis of the relationship between fishing and the environment.
From the beginning, he wanted this war in order to become president.
It is an issue for consideration but it has not been ruled out.
Indeed, we should not allow GMOs to obscure the fact that meat and bonemeal are still included in animal feeds in many countries in Europe.
Equally I understand the Commissioner failing to endorse such a tax, but I cannot understand why he failed to have the courage to welcome the opportunity to demonstrate the truth of his position by a study of the issue.
It has already attracted much comment, including reactions from Members of Parliament.
However, I should like to point out that it is precisely here that this is fatal. It is precisely where employment policy is concerned that we should work towards measures which are as simplified as possible so that the social dimension of the EU is once again given the importance which it deserves.
Over the same period, Kyrgyzstan received EUR 17 million.
It may even be a way of doing extremism a great deal of good.
(The Minutes were approved)
It was a subject which called for a large dose of technical skill and I think Mr Knörr has handled it with great precision and professionalism.
There is a limit to how useful that is.
Indeed, these floods and appalling weather have resulted in many thousands of people losing their homes and all of their possessions, people who cannot return to their homes after the storms, purely and simply because their homes and their belongings no longer exist. They are no longer there, having been swept away in the torrents.
What it says it that one of two things may apply, i.e. either the legislation in the host country or the collective agreements which have been declared to be the rules universally applicable to a specific sector.
The main changes are as follows: all rural areas will be eligible to benefit from LEADER+; the selection criteria for local measures will be more rigorous; integrated local development plans will be introduced as priority themes, such as the use of information technology, improving the quality of life, and adding value to local products.
I hear - whether it is true or not I do not know - that the Serbs are even continuing to operate a mine in the Serbian sector of Kosovo.
It is quite obvious to me, as someone who specialises in development policy, that there are many areas where lack of coherence is dramatically affecting developing nations.
It contains plans for financial support for all the main renewable energy sources sectors.
Moreover, due to the immense economic and social interests involved, we cannot afford to wait for a judgement to be pronounced two years after the event, as is now quite normal.
The state aid procedure covers the question of cross-subsidisation between monopoly letter services and commercial business parcel activities as well as the financing of Deutsche Post' s numerous recent acquisitions.
But that is not to say that we are satisfied, and that everything in the garden is rosy.
In Spain, a policy of full recuperation of water costs would clearly not have the same effect as in the countries of the centre and north of Europe.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I fully support the motion for a resolution being discussed by this House. The repression of both Angolan and foreign journalists in Angola is scandalous and so serious that we cannot let it pass without comment.
In respect of the super-Europeans, I would say that European social protection is neither attainable nor desirable.
These female virtues can offer an alternative to today' s culture of violence and institute a new political culture and a fairer and more prosperous society for everyone.
Is the understanding of this point the same on both sides of the Atlantic Ocean?
We will be producing a communication on anti-personnel landmines, actually the use of sensor equipment.
How will BSE status in fact be defined then?
I hope that in the fifth action programme, Minister and Commissioner, benchmarking will enable the best practices of those countries to be carried through, for it is time that our groups gained an understanding of this.
No one, not least my party, could begin to disagree that recycling should be encouraged, but the best way to achieve that is to work with the market, not to create another bureaucratic monstrosity.
Therefore, on behalf of my group, I would like to say that we support the Theato report; I nevertheless think that this is essentially a subject that should be included on the IGC agenda.
The people of Angola deserve better.
He proposed an ambitious report, based on an optimistic Europe, which sought to establish quantified targets for the results it was seeking to achieve.
The environmental disaster of the sinking of the Erika off Brittany and the spillage of 10 000 tonnes of oil has been widely reported in the British media.
I would lastly like to refer to the amendments on dangerous substances which establish that we must achieve a zero, or close to zero, degree of pollution.
That also applies to the inclusion of the civil society, which is a welcome step.
There should also be measures that respect and develop the resources and capabilities of these countries' agriculture and fisheries, which are often harmed by the European Union' s own insensitive policies, as well as the promotion of active policies to create jobs, particularly for women and young people. Only through the decisive application of this kind of measure will we be able to overcome social and regional inequality, which is not the historical product of inherent defects but of marginalisation and economic policies which have had harmful effects.
He has just been preaching to the Group of the Party of European Socialists because they went back on a decision taken in a perfectly clear manner at the Conference of Presidents, and now he is doing just the same.
We might then see an end to some of the fraud, corruption and mismanagement that seem endemic in some countries and that have to be stopped.
Finally, I want to say that, when my country provides environmental aid to shipowners who wish to improve the quality of the environment, there are units within the Commission who regard this as prohibited aid to shipyards.
I have clearly received your series of messages on this subject and I believe that Mrs Banotti has an answer for you.
Mr President, Commissioner, firstly, I too would like to congratulate Mr Corrie on the accuracy and rigour of the summary in his report.
What interests will this so-called force defend, in view of the fact that the countries of Europe do not have the same interests?
But, in our view, that does not mean that the role of the public authority should be reduced, either as regards the universality or, we hope, the quality of the basic social protection provided.
It makes them think of secret societies and conspiracies, which is the way things used to be.
By persisting with their proposal of EUR 613 million as a reference amount for 2000 - 2004, and by refusing to accept the European Parliament' s proposal of EUR 850 million, the Commission and the Council are taking a decision which we do not feel is based on the same criteria of rationality and justice that they introduced, and rightly so, for other measures in LIFE III.
We need more police officers, as we have nowhere near enough.
(Loud applause)
The Commission also supports the proposed flexible period of validity of the card.
The facts are clear.
Question No 29 by (H-0786/99):
These two proposals contribute considerably to the implementation of one of the four key principles of the internal market for the freedom to provide services.
If the European Community had done the same, a great disaster would have been avoided.
Of course, it is always possible, but when jobs have been lost and factories closed down, the idea of going to Court when proceedings are as lengthy as they are in Italy is not very reassuring.
The Union considers it untimely to reach a stability and association agreement with this country.
In that area, there have been various policies from time to time, and what the European Union should guard against is the risk that, for ultimately superficial reasons, it may help to create banana republics elsewhere.
Besides, we cannot remain indifferent towards the increased challenges in areas around the Union or towards addressing very acute environmental protection problems in the applicant countries.
However, there is another environmental principle at stake, namely the exchange principle.
Nevertheless, despite these aspects, European citizens are disappointed and concerned: by unemployment which is not falling quickly enough; by a Europe trailing behind in technology, and seemingly falling even further behind, and in particular a scientific sector which is starting to lag a long way behind too; by the European institutions which appear distant and do not seem to be in step with the times, starting with the Commission itself.
Cultural activity creates identity.
Car manufacturers will have to provide information on the rate of re-use, recycling and recovery of used cars which will be achieved in the coming years.
Everyone should be given the opportunity to benefit here from a common initiative regardless of their age, gender or origin.
Thirdly, this directive, as it currently stands in the common position, guarantees - in particular because it confines itself exclusively to minimum standards - a high degree of flexibility and modest regulation by the European Union; by adopting it we contribute to the Member States' bearing a high level of individual responsibility.
I also welcome Commissioner Busquin's idea to have a common research area for the whole of the European Union.
(DA) Mrs Cederschiöld' s report reflects an extremely peculiar form of logic. The EU introduces a common currency.
We agree with many of the rapporteur' s remarks but do not at all share his optimism about the Commission' s and the Council' s intentions and plans concerning social protection.
I respect your understanding and knowledge of the Balkan region, Mr Alyssandrakis, but I find it difficult, quite frankly, to understand how respecting the characteristics of the region can, in terms of political stability, be a solution to the problem.
Mr President, first I want to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Frassoni, for her work.
During this period the ports of Great Yarmouth and Harwich on the Essex-Suffolk-Norfolk coast have launched significant new transportation and economic links with partners in the Netherlands.
This is why the European Parliament successfully called for the URBAN Community Initiative or CIP to be extended during the reform of the Structural Funds.
The new government would like to tackle this matter and the agreement could be an agenda for reforms, including a direct role and equality for the Albanian minority.
Consideration must then be given to natural background emissions which cannot be influenced, as well as diffused emissions which are difficult to control, and which pollute the water quite substantially.
In my view the next five years will decide the future of thousands of marginal family farms.
I cannot see any need for other derogations besides those specified in the two amendments just mentioned.
But, if I understand what Mr Solbes Mira says correctly, then this undertaking was only a tentative one.
The stumbling block in the negotiations with the Council lies, of course, in the amount of the total appropriation allocated for the third phase of the LIFE programme (2000-2004).
Experience shows that projects of cooperation need better planning and closer monitoring and need to be generally more successful.
Not that I want to put it off, but it would be a gesture, as it were, if you could say: here is the proposed legislation on the BSE test.
Coordination of Community tourism activities with other important issues such as regional policies, transport, employment, environment, culture and competition must strongly involve Member States and the tourism industry itself.
The European pillar does not really function any more as such. Europe is not venturing beyond the Petersberg tasks.
Currently, women hold 24.5 per cent of our A-grade posts, and we hope the number will increase steadily.
I believe that it is important for the Community initiative to be able to begin on time and therefore for the report to receive overwhelming support so that the Commission is also obliged to take into consideration the constructive proposals made by the European Parliament, because Parliament put the appropriations for EQUAL in the reserve precisely so as to ensure that Members' ideas were also reflected in this Community initiative.
I do not know whether this is in order, and I would therefore ask you to verify the accuracy of the procedure which was followed before this report reached the House.
It is nonetheless clear that the cost will be borne jointly by manufacturers and consumers.
I welcome in particular the proposed new and strict authorisation procedures for additives in animal feeds.
We must make sure that what we do makes clear sense.
. (DA) We have voted in favour of the report on the communication from the Commission concerning the guidelines for a Community initiative relating to the economic and social regeneration of cities and neighbourhoods in crisis and designed to promote sustainable development (URBAN).
We would like to know their names and their faces.
This is, of course, a highly sensitive issue.
I do believe the ACP countries need a transition period, but they also need support in the context of the new logic of regionalisation of aid, not only in agriculture and fisheries, but also in the exploitation of mineral and underground resources, some of which are being exploited, with slim economic returns to the ACP countries themselves.
That is why in committee I proposed some form of business impact assessment, so that costs and risks to jobs could be taken into account, and the EPP-DE Group supported this amendment.
That faces us with the very important challenge of offering the consumers cheaper postal services.
Is the Council discussing this issue?
Mr President, first of all, congratulations to Michiel van Hulten for his first report.
Mrs Izquierdo Rojo, I hear that you have a strong voice. I hope it is loud enough to be heard in Madrid for I realise that what you have said was not strictly intended for me.
I am pleased to say that in Wales, which I represent, 40% of our national assembly members are women as the result of positive action by the political parties but, on the other hand, we have only 4 women MPs from Wales in the House of Commons which is only 10% of the total; so statements of principle, of support in principle, are not enough because they have not worked.
INTERREG appropriations may be used to make our regions into veritable European Union bridgeheads into these geographical areas, giving it worldwide scope.
Finally, we urge the European Parliament, both sides of industry and social NGOs to be closely involved in this process.
Once again, the Commission does not speculate why something is happening earlier or later than planned. It only appreciates that a building for this Office is opened and occupied as soon as possible.
For example, state guarantees, on which the Commission has just publicised its position, must naturally be considered state aid, but they are, in my opinion, a better option than granting aid directly to companies.
Geographical mobility is not an invention of the twentieth century and neither are its economic and work-related causes.
To conclude, I want to welcome the Commission' s XVIIIth Report on Competition Policy, on which, once again, a good deal of work has been done.
(FR) This report takes us back to the question of why we even have a regional policy.
Today, it is probably the only public service in many remote areas and people are concerned that European legislation will eventually make it difficult to maintain it.
The solidarity and cohesion of people all over Europe depend on the thought that you can post a letter anywhere and it will be delivered anywhere else, at an affordable stamp price.
Accordingly, Mr Ortuondo Larrea, the Council reiterates its opinion that without this transfer, greater account would be taken of France' s possibilities for anchovy fishing in the Bay of Biscay.
This is in line with the budget order issued by Parliament in December last.
This approach has been used very effectively in Norway where new reports of ISA are down to a handful of cases a year having peaked at some 80-90 cases per year in the early 1990s.
Against this background, my group thinks it essential to increase the allocation to LIFE and unreservedly supports Mrs Lienemann' s proposal to increase the budget to EUR 850 million, since we know, and I think it bears saying, how high the expectations of our fellow citizens on environmental matters are and how excessively cautious and unacceptable the Council' s compromise regarding the budget for LIFE is, especially as the LIFE programmes show exceptional implementation rates and have demonstrated the extent to which they made it possible to bring about new environmental practice.
The settlers at the Golan Heights will demand to be compensated and there will have to be guarantees of security.
We all know that, in 1995, it was agreed that the Union' s financial interests should be given better protection under criminal law.
We need to move that agenda forward with great urgency now.
Europe' s share of the increase is falling drastically each year to the benefit of Asia, the Far East and America.
That concludes the debate.
Nearly 40% of businesses in this survey are still reporting additional costs to render products or services compatible with national specifications.
This report, therefore, appears at a crucial time, on the eve of Mr Kinnock' s reforms.
It is nothing less than hypocritical to condemn the flagrant violation of human rights that occurs in non-EU countries if we are not prepared to extend a helping hand to those genuine refugees and asylum-seekers, whose position is now becoming more difficult in the EU.
But the Council' s draft leaves a lot to be desired and attracts criticism on several counts.
However, forgive me if I am a little sceptical of the reply you have just given me.
And if we look at the original proposals - and I suspect that we will see the same in the new ones - it was not until 2002 that we were going to complete overall reform of the Staff Regulations.
Mr President, I am grateful for the Council' s oral, and also written, reply.
The most recent estimate of the deficit was submitted in September 1999 and it relates to the 1998 financial year.
We are honoured by the visit of this delegation which is taking place shortly before the entry into force on 1 March 2000 of the Association Agreement between Morocco and the European Union.
It is up to the government to deal with this fact in a transparent and open manner, without any backhandedness.
Mr President, there is a general consensus of opinion that financial aid to Cyprus and Malta is important.
President Guterres was also a traitor in Salazar' s eyes, and that is something that I believe should also be stated and defended by the PPE-DE.
In other words, a product' s manufacturer is to demonstrate whether or not the product is hazardous.
That is in itself also about avoiding being unduly restrictive towards the stranger simply because he or she is a stranger.
I have one last point to make, which is about the European Union' s responsibility and, specifically, in this case, about possible action by the Council in this matter, and the responsibility of the international community, which has overall responsibility for the situation in Kosovo.
In the majority of EU countries, there are now governments dominated by social democrats.
With regard to enforcement, proper agreements must also be concluded with the Eastern European countries because they will not enter into treaties which deal with this matter until 1 July 2001, that is to say in eighteen months' time.
If, despite this, there is a desire to increase public spending, then those who go down this path will find that it is not long before the European Central Bank raises interest rates again.
At the moment the Commission is consulting its staff representatives on the document, a process which will be finalised in the forthcoming weeks.
I regret therefore that I am not at present in a position to accept amendments that refer to compensation through Decision 90/424.
We are witnessing events of great political significance and I hope that we in the European Parliament can promote the appropriate favourable view and a generous attitude on the part of the Union, so that Cuba' s aspirations can meet with a positive response as soon as possible.
Unfortunately, I find the reference to the relevant standards to be lacking.
In this regard we strongly support the High Representative' s recent appeal to Member States to provide more police officers for the UN civil police mission in Kosovo.
Not only the Commission, not only the European Parliament but also the people and the states in our European Union will have to find new answers to the question of how and why we want to live and work together.
They should not be about creating additional layers of bureaucracy and red tape.
However, this Parliament would not be fulfilling its role as a supranational European institution if it did not consider the political design of the Union.
We acknowledge that this report does have one good point - it shows that the working class majority in society can expect nothing from the European institutions in terms of safeguarding their living conditions, and still less of improving them.
But what were the Commission' s arguments, from Commissioner Monika Wulf-Mathies and Director-General Eneko Landaburu in particular, for eliminating the URBAN programme?
We in the Basque Country could ask ourselves the same question. Does it really matter if we are Basque or Spanish or European?
Yes, Mr Bonde, we will be starting this debate with 700 young people in Brussels who are going to be working in the institutions and with the Commission.
Andrey Babitsky was an unwanted busybody in Mr Putin' s 'anti-terrorist' operation in Chechnya.
Why do I say that culture is important?
The vote will take place on Thursday at 12.00 p.m.
That is quite right, Mr Heaton-Harris. I put the matter to a vote by a show of hands because none of the groups had requested voting by roll call.
. (FR) The European Union is apparently financed through four own resources.
It is of no concern to the major groups in Parliament, nor to the majority of the trade unions, who are busy discussing the defence of European public administration, but, in practice, are occupied with the corporate protection of their own members, putting the wide powers afforded to them to dubious use.
It is plainly essential to establish as rapidly as possible an accurate picture of the scope of the damage so that we can decide exactly how best to help tackle it.
.
Are reducing the disparities between levels of development and the consequent promotion of real convergence objectives that we have already achieved?
Mr President, personally I voted in favour of this resolution, because the essential thing is that the European Parliament should discuss the postal service and we should get away from the current ambiguous situation.
Personally, I would not want to feel like a quota, to think that I was in a particular job because I was a woman.
A country which acted in that way would bring a lot of ill will upon itself.
I would point out that doing nothing will be the death of Tibetan culture and will mean the end of the Tibetan people.
This has, from the outset, been the position of the Portuguese Presidency.
I did not hear Mr Duisenberg criticising the intervention of the American monetary authorities to save the hedge fund, LTCM.
My second question pertains to the reconstruction of the hospital in Mitrovica.
I should therefore be very grateful indeed if the Chamber could support it.
The machinery mobilising the aid is too slow.
Secondly, looking forward to the motion for a resolution on the Katiforis report later this evening, paragraph 28 is of particular importance.
Thirdly, we need to carry out checks on these safety and insurance certificates in the ports, that is in every port of the European Union.
So I know the very serious problems that exist in that hospital and I can assure the honourable Member that we will be doing all that we can to see that adequate health facilities are available for everybody in Kosovo, whatever ethnic group they come from.
Mr President, Commissioner, it is because of my experience in the Balkans, when I was there on duty, that I call on you today to support the efforts of the Secretary-General of the United Nations to bring those responsible for the genocide in Cambodia to trial before an independent court under the aegis of the United Nations.
In view of the fact that the Irish authorities have undertaken to make compensatory improvements and that other issues have already been resolved, the Commission will not, for the present, propose that financial support from the Structural Funds should be suspended.
Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, you have come here today, Mr Prodi, in a very reformist and ambitious mood.
However, further to the directive on common rules for Community postal services, the Commission has undertaken studies which have not been forwarded to the European Parliament. We are therefore unaware of the impacts of the directive' s application on either the level of service provided to the people or the current European postal operators in terms of both economics and employment.
This is why this report is so important.
It was never the responsibility of the farmer, it was the food compounders who caused this problem and we have to ensure that it never happens again.
In a way, this is deferred punishment for its lack of honesty, at the time, in presenting the Maastricht Treaty to the voters.
After all, it is responsible for technical measures to protect against counterfeiting.
I would like to divide the considerations raised during this debate on the von Wogau report into four groups. I do not consider these considerations to be criticisms of the Commission, but, on the contrary, fundamental contributions, since justified concerns have been expressed that we both want to overcome.
It has also made it clear that it may wish to extend the range of data being collected by Member States at a later stage.
In recent years, the behaviour of UNITA has merited our reservations and criticisms but this cannot be used to excuse the Angolan State for having established a disastrous war economy with widespread corruption resulting in the continued suffering of its people.
There are reactions to this in some quarters since it does not comply with the liberal canons of beauty which stipulate that there must be no financial intervention in order support an administration.
Mr President, I simply wanted to pass on some news. There was a terrorist attack this morning in Madrid.
The next item is the report (A5-0016/2000) by Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the second report from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament on the implementation of the "statement of conclusions from the intermediate ministerial meeting on the integration of fisheries and environmental issues, 13-14 March in Bergen" (COM(1999) 270 - C5-0156/1999 - 1999/2150 (COS)).
Many dossiers are currently being filed with precisely this concern.
I think it essential to have a framework directive on water policy in the European Union, which will be the basic legal instrument for improving the quality and proper management of water resources, and I congratulate the rapporteur on her attempt to address this thorny issue and take due account of all the points of view.
Mr President, I am sure the Commission will be relieved to hear that the 97 discharge is unlikely to have the same impact as the 96 discharge which, as you are all so very well aware, led to the forced resignation of the Santer Commission.
This assistance has delivered benefits in all sectors, in particular agriculture, infrastructure development, the private economy and the strengthening of institutions.
Last February in this House we unambiguously decided (and we Social Democrats are sticking to this) that the matter of freedom from costs for the last owner is not open to question!
It needs to be increased to reflect regional and local factors whilst maintaining financial awards to the Member States.
The Minutes of the sittings of Thursday 3 February and Monday 14 February have been distributed.
Furthermore, we should utilise an extraordinary budget line, since this is an extraordinarily catastrophic situation.
The next item is the report A5-0017/2000 by Mr Katiforis, on behalf of the Committee on Fisheries, on the communication from the Commission to the Council and European Parliament: Fisheries management and nature conservation in the marine environment (COM(1999) 363 - C5-0176/1999 - 1999/2155 (COS)).
Madam President, Mr Prodi, how would you take stock of your policy and work programme, what would your benchmark be, if you had to make direct choices?
We will proceed to the debate itself and Mr Monti will take the floor on behalf of the Commission.
We cannot afford to waste time.
Since the Treaties contain no specific legal basis for a real Community tourism policy, the European Union must help to improve and encourage cooperation in this sector, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, in order to take practical advantage of the potential which tourism offers in terms of employment.
One might ask how it is that the current Commission is to receive the discharge for its predecessor' s budgetary management - Mr Camre just mentioned this - particularly as the discharge for the previous year, 1996, was denied.
We stand ready to do so.
We have submitted an amendment to this effect.
As has already been said in this debate, three million potential new jobs within the next ten years is something well worth going for.
Allow me to comment briefly on two other points. First, genetically modified micro-organisms in feedingstuffs.
Mr President, Mr van Hulten, your work is worthy of being qualified as enterprising, arduous and complex, and I believe this is important in a first report.
I would also ask you whether you believe that any other European head of government has ever been reminded of these principles by the Commission when they were elected.
This was without a doubt the result of a complex negotiating process in which both parties made major concessions, and this is certainly true of the European Union, especially in the field of good governance and trade.
Mr President, my compliments to the rapporteur for his in-depth report.
It is, of course, only in this way that we can create a future for the car industry.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the conference on rural development held in Cork from 7 to 9 November 1996 set rural development as one of the European Union' s priorities since it is essential in order to maintain the existence and continued development of agriculture, to provide farmers with an environment containing the necessary infrastructure and services, and to ensure greater respect for the environment and a better quality of life, diversification and job creation.
It is mirrored in the International Convention for the Protection and Sustainable Use of the Danube River and it should be applied in this case.
The labelling of genetically-modified additives is particularly important in this respect.
A European inspection body must be established which can monitor the condition of vessels effectively and efficiently.
I am telling you all of this to illustrate how complex the problem is, and I thank the Commission once again for extending their analysis of this situation as far as it could.
Having heard many Members who share the view expressed in the opinion, this was a real relief.
I would ask you, now that you are President of the Council, will you push forward with this extremely important proposal.
For all these reasons I thought it essential to reply directly to Mr Van Hecke' s question on this issue.
We believe that the universal service is a pillar and I am sure that my colleague will be able to provide reassurances to the appropriate parliamentary committee.
For the rest, I warmly thank our rapporteur.
The risk of counterfeiting increases. Counterfeiting of the euro is perceived as an offence against the entire EU; the punishment must therefore be the same in each Member State.
It is now obvious that the main priority is for rescue helicopters, followed immediately by food aid and other emergency humanitarian aid.
The fight of these Indians is being backed by more than 250 NGOs and, thanks to the efforts of the Belgian 'Mother Earth' organisation, we are being kept informed of this situation.
Social policy needs to be renewed in order to reduce unemployment in the Member States.
Mr President, Commissioner, in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, we upheld unanimously the criterion that it was of strategic importance and a matter of priority to support the interventions of the Structural and Cohesion Funds which are working for a better opportunity for jobs for the unemployed and for equality between men and women.
As for a ban on certain materials: of course we need one!
The Commission will fulfil the remit given to it at Tampere to present proposals for approving definitions, criminal charges and common sanctions in the field of trafficking in human beings, economic exploitation of immigrants, and sexual exploitation of woman and children, with special emphasis on combating the use of new means of communication, notably the Internet, for distributing child pornography.
All the Members in the Union for a Europe of Nations Group voted in favour of almost the whole of the Procacci report on the LEADER + Community Initiative.
Thirdly, we expressed, in very explicit terms, that we will uphold without fear or favour the values and the provisions of Article 6 of the Treaty; and that we will take our part under Article 7 of the Treaty in ensuring that those values of liberty and democracy and fundamental freedoms are upheld.
There are huge reserves; certain zones, rural zones, so-called zones lagging behind but which still have unspoilt nature and untouched natural habitats, are listed as having good potential for what we call eco-tourism or green tourism.
So the big test for us is going to be in the Balkans. I hope that all those heads of government, all those prominent politicians in our Member States who promised the earth in the Balkans, who promised Marshall plans and who make all the other promises in the Balkans will be around when the budgetary authority decides how much we have got to spend in the Balkans.
I feel that the French authorities - which have the honour of housing the European Parliament in Strasbourg - should be aware of their responsibility to ensure adequate connections with all the capitals of the Union.
The Union has mobilised some EUR 20 million over the past seven years to support protection of the Danube River basin.
Mr Andersson will be familiar with what was termed then 'prohibition' .
By allowing them to develop tailor-made plans for the relevant regions and, if necessary, tying this in with financial aid, a higher return can be achieved.
Atrocities were not even being recorded.
For it is no small thing to have a minority of 33% or even 35% in one' s own country.
I was also encouraged by Commissioner Patten' s comments this morning about a rapid reaction fund for security crises.
As an ecologist, let met tell you that the precautionary principle and sustainable development require much more diversified and many-sided approaches.
Langen Report (A5-0073/1999)
Over the past couple of months, High Representative Solana and Commissioner Patten have, during discussions, among other things, with members of the NATO Assembly, tried to separate the defence policies of the EU and NATO.
I was reassured that this was also the view of Prime Minister Barak and President Arafat, when they met on Monday.
Most importantly, we need to restore a European economy in which performance pays and people can work as entrepreneurs.
Unless we can maintain high standards of human rights with respect to refugees and asylum-seekers, we are not worthy of those European values which make up the European identity, as Vaclav Havel said here today, and among which he particularly mentioned respect for human rights and solidarity.
I worked for many years on the South African Truth and Reconciliation Commission and it was really moving to see how a nation in such difficult circumstances was reaching out for a more open, European-style, pluralistic democratic society.
I hope that it works out.
What we are going to vote on tomorrow is to ask the Commission to study the matter, to look at what steps and what conditions would be necessary for the introduction of such a tax.
Only in Europe are human rights enforceable in law.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to thank Mr Langen for his excellent work in this important matter.
However, the aim of an approach which really sought to reduce discrimination effectively and in the long term would have to be people' s self-determination.
The President-in-Office informed our committee that the current Portuguese presidency intended the CFP to be regarded as a policy for ensuring the sustainability of our resources. This must be our objective in Europe and throughout the world.
I hope the debate we are holding here will bring some clarification.
(Parliament gave its assent)Relating to Thursday:
It is a good agreement which undoubtedly improves the transparency of the process.
For example, the fact that the amount and level of state aid calculated on a per capita basis vary considerably from Member State to Member State reveals the need for surveys such as this.
The next item is the report (A5-0018/2000) by Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the convening of the Intergovernmental Conference [14094/1999 - C5-0341/1999 - 1999/0825(CNS)].
At the present time it is entirely up to the Member States to ensure that those rights are respected under the scrutiny of the Council of Europe' s Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg.
Listening to him just now, I was concerned when he mentioned new resources, something that readily translates as additional taxation, in view, inter alia, of enlargement, that is the entry of new States into the Union.
Mr Medina Ortega, I am as convinced as you are that we must be even more vigilant after liberalisation, because we do not want the disappearance of public monopolies to give rise, through unchecked concentration, to private operators.
I can wholeheartedly support the demand that the price of water should be set at a level which creates incentives to use water resources in a sustainable way.
We must be demanding on this issue and we are negotiating to this end.
In any event, I appreciate the vigilance of your Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in this matter.
Is there anyone who wishes to speak against this proposal?
There will be no meeting today in Shepherdstown but we must hope, as Mr Patten said just now, that this postponement of the negotiations due to Syrian requirements will only represent one more step on the road to a peace agreement which will change the face of the Middle East.
Madam President, this morning the Commission President, Mr Prodi, has set out ambitious goals for the European Union for the next five years, laudable aims indeed, to make a strong and effective European presence felt in the world: succeeding with enlargement, meeting the challenge of selling e-Europe, introducing better principles of governance.
I would be grateful if the Commissioner could explicitly confirm that.
It must be visible.
The report on competition policy further stresses the Commission' s confidence in hard and fast rules instead of putting the emphasis on economic arguments regarding efficiency, which affects competitiveness.
At the moment, with inter-company agreements and the privatisation of monopolies preserving dominant positions and even consolidating them, the combating of abusive conduct is becoming particularly important.
The vast majority of them are not members of any party.
Thank you, Mrs Fraga Estévez.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Representative of the Council Presidency for his answer.
However, we already knew this.
.
So, judicially, something needs to be done.
Depending on the results of this work, a wider debate could then take place which might well be the starting-point for even more comprehensive policy initiatives.
Certainly there are those who would argue that we should give law-making powers to such an authority.
It is not, however, possible to talk about this without at the same time talking about monetary union.
It is good that this directive should be established now, as, otherwise, Member States would have to amend their national acts for a very short time, a period of transition, which would again mean unnecessary costs and which would once more increase concern with regard to EU bureaucracy.
First, in respect to economic data, Amendment No 2 makes two changes.
That would sound the death knell for every agricultural and many industrial undertakings.
That position is like holey cheese, or to keep it the sphere of water, as leaky as a sieve.
If they do not, if businesspeople feel marginalised, if entrepreneurs cannot take part, not only in managing but also in receiving these funds, we will have missed an opportunity to attain our objectives more rapidly.
What we have to be looking at is the way an issue like that connects with our policies elsewhere.
That is why the Commission wants to keep the right to withdraw a case from a national competition authority in the event of incorrect application.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would firstly like to congratulate Mrs Lienemann on the report she has carried out, and also the Commission - why not? - because this report, this position, generally improves on the texts in force.
Changes to the Financial Regulation will be required and Parliament must have its say on those changes.
I do not expect you to wave through or rubber stamp everything you are confronted with in the coming years.
Third, standards in European public life must be upheld.
Access into Community waters of vessels flying flags of convenience which do not meet Community safety standards must be controlled.
A great many proposals have been made which warrant investigation.
These events certainly have their origin in, among other factors, the absence of a clear immigration policy allowing the affected communities to live together respectfully and peacefully.
Rural areas must truly be seen as a resource which should be increasingly invested in, by encouraging young people to remain in rural areas in order to prevent their economic and social disintegration.
General interest or solidarity often do not come into the equation.
What answer will the Commission give, when it is on the scene, when you tell the forestry worker that we support road construction and dam-building, and we want to rebuild our cultural heritage and create tourist attractions etc.? All this is well-intentioned advice.
This could be of a maximum of 15 years of age.
We have adopted resolutions in the past but they usually are nothing but a warning shot, as nothing is actually done with them.
Here again, Commissioner, the ball is in your court.
Family farming is now recognised as central to the European agricultural model and is an objective to be addressed, certainly within the time-scale of Agenda 2000.
The number is huge. They are an ecological time bomb and affect the drinking water supply, ecological wealth and economic future of surrounding areas.
Consequently, the Commission has asked for the advice of a group of experts regarding the entirety of the reforms which could be implemented in order to enable the Court of Justice and the Court of First Instance to maintain the quality and coherence of their administration of justice in forthcoming decades.
It must be stressed that in order to become eligible under the LEADER programme, local operators have combined forces, debated and prepared projects.
When we are divided, we are weakened, and the suffering of the oppressed is prolonged.
Moreover, the cost will have to be borne in the future.
But it is inevitably going to be a tough process with difficulties and disappointments on the way.
That is why, where the good LEADER projects are concerned, we need to ensure that those which have proved to be outstanding are not suddenly discontinued; instead the ideas which have proved to be worthwhile need at some stage to be transferred into the standard programmes as a reliable, positive component of our support to rural areas.
If I can provide one example of this sort of vigilance, it is the case of Deutsche Post where, following complaints and an action before the court, the Commission initiated a formal state aid procedure in July.
It is now February and we are still waiting.
Taking into account the considerable volume of short-term financial streams, even a low nominal Tobin tax would yield respectable sums of tax revenue.
I believe that the remaining problems that we have faced within this Parliament, and which in large part stem from the fact that it is so difficult to strike the right balance, can be solved.
You said yourself just now that you talked to them over lunch. You have to admit, it would be a rather odd if you were not on speaking terms with them and if there was a lack of cooperation between you and the new frameworks.
In the eyes of the Albanian minority, the Macedonians and the Macedonian state have more than met their neighbourly obligations in respect of Kosovo' s Albanian majority who were persecuted to the extreme.
We are nonetheless very critical of the methods which the 14 Member States have employed on this issue.
It is, meanwhile, very obvious that we will need to work closely with Parliament, as an institution, on central matters of common interest, notably pay and pensions and the revision of the staff regulations.
It will show whether the dialogue is producing results or not.
Two amendments were cancelled by the services because the content has supposedly already been given consideration to in the report.
We accept that the agreement should to a certain extent serve as an example for other such agreements, although obviously we will also want to take account of the fact that we are dealing with different countries, each of which has its own identity and its own concerns.
I cannot accept that.
AIDS treatments that may cost $18 000 per annum for one person are obviously not affordable by countries whose annual health budget may be less than $5 per capita.
That is how the common position has been worded.
We have doubts concerning the appropriateness of the IGC because we fear that the objectives actually being addressed may be far removed from the changes required to allow for the enlargement envisaged.
You also share a heavy degree of responsibility for ensuring that we do not end up as paper tigers.
Trading with counterfeit currencies and the possession of counterfeiting equipment will also become criminal offences.
Your proposals must also include making double hulls mandatory and enforcing observance, at last, of the ban on degassing at sea.
The fight by feedingstuff manufacturers to gain maximum market shares causes a lot of problems, just as it does in the foodstuffs industry.
By embarking on the kind of pseudo and partial privatisations we have also witnessed in Germany, we have combined the drawbacks of the state monopoly with the drawbacks of privatisation, which is really not the purpose of the whole exercise!
We want our consumers to obtain as much as possible for the wages they are paid.
Special risk-spreading rules are proposed in respect of such investments, involving both quantitative and qualitative criteria.
You spoke to us about the start of your tour around the various capital cities and told us about the difficulties that some governments have in reaching a consensus in their own countries, and therefore in their parliaments.
The law must be correctly applied in matters of competition.
This argument is therefore not relevant.
Is the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference not the ideal opportunity for this?
Mr President, it cannot be repeated often enough: since 1975, the Lomé Convention has constituted an important pillar of European development cooperation and has a pilot role to play in many respects.
Finally, as the committee representing energy, we would have liked the issue of support for renewable energy resources from Cohesion and Regional Development funds to have been emphasised still more, thus, through a process of coordination, increasing the use of renewables so that the scant funding resources in the energy programme might have been compensated by means of these more substantial sums.
Cakes of tar are still washing in along 500 km of the Atlantic coastline on a daily basis.
This is natural elsewhere but it seems to be an extremely radical suggestion when it is put to the Commission.
The work that has been done in dealing with landmines has been a success story in Mozambique.
It is a vital precondition for strengthening democratic institutions and civil society.
I look to the Portuguese Presidency in particular to build on some of the tremendous work which was done by the Finnish Presidency in bringing forward coordinated plans and action between the Member States.
Minister Gomes, I have, of course, heard what you have said and I hope that cooperation will clearly improve in this respect during the Portuguese Presidency.
That is why we can only hope - and we should resolve all of this this week - that, in 2001, we will finally have Community regulations for the transport of dangerous goods by road so that we have a degree of legal certainty here and also so that our roads are a good deal safer.
It is the world of the EU that the citizens are interested in, this is the one that counts in their eyes.
The fact is people are suddenly going to lose all their currency references, and that means they will be at serious risk of easily accepting forged euros because they are not very familiar with the genuine article.
Madam President, I did not want to disturb you a minute ago during the vote.
I understand that there is agreement on this issue.
The experts think that this problem will be resolved by banning the Commissioners from belonging to political groups.
The Commission' s proposal takes it as read that OTC derivatives are not one of the general types of investment that UCITS deal in, but that they should only be used to achieve efficient portfolio management and to hedge exchange-rate risks.
Infectious salmon anaemia is a contagious viral disease which was first recorded in Norway in 1984, then in Canada in 1986 and first found in European Union territory in May 1998 in Scotland.
It does not compete with the cultural policies implemented in the various Member States.
I therefore took a European Commissioner, and not just the French ones, or ambassadors posted in Paris or MEPs to engage in this dialogue each week. This made me realise that people had many intelligent questions and that they needed to be respected, listened to and informed.
The comprehensive approach that the Commission intends to adopt on this issue will be brought forward as soon as possible under Article 152 where Parliament will have a codecision function.
In this sense, the USA is not only our partner; it is also our competitor; not our opponent, our competitor and we must fight to see which of us offers our citizens the best model.
Based on a number of recommendations, reports and communications, the Commission has made another step in the convergence process by setting out objectives and by setting up a working party of high-ranking officials.
The proposal cannot therefore be approved.
At the same time of course, we need to create the power to act in order to facilitate the enlargement of the European Union.
A proper stock-taking of the effectiveness of mine action programmes needs to take place in each of the countries seriously afflicted by landmines.
What is more, the report on social security should be published annually and examined in conjunction with the report on employment.
The postal service and the post office are a vital feature of life in rural communities throughout Europe and not least in Scotland.
In addition, I would like to point out that the forestry industry is certainly not just about timber production, for barrier woodland and woodland that acts as a shield against avalanches also constitute an important factor in certain regions.
I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Commission to take good note of this need for coordination, which I have just mentioned, and to seek new formulas which will strengthen the role played by the European Union in the field of human rights and, in particular, by this Parliament, especially from the point of view of coherence, recognising the good will of those third countries which accept the inclusion of the democratic clause.
Without them we would not be able to function.
The draft that the Council has elaborated contains provisions on a variety of matters that have been discussed by several Members of Parliament.
The Angolan Government must immediately authorise a substantial UN presence which can mediate and can report on human rights.
Madam President, the Commission communication is well written but sufficiently vague to allow any interpretation whatsoever.
We also intend to initiate a new debate, a more innovative one, on the issue of Europe' s film heritage, given that this must be one of the most important factors in the development of a European cultural identity and of a European audiovisual economy.
.
These panels are powered to initiate regulatory measures on species covered by the convention.
Once the project comes to an end after five years, the policy of free gifts also ends.
A new agreement has been reached with the ACP countries.
On the other hand, the European Regional Development Fund, the ERDF, also contributes as part of its role to promoting social and economic cohesion, by redressing the main regional imbalances and encouraging rural areas to take part in development and conversion.
What we cannot do, Commissioner - and I would like to end on this note - is to give way, and give ammunition, to those who regard the European institutions as the property of the great and the good, of the rich, and not of the citizen, or the small and medium business, which, in the worst case scenario - which will never become reality because the requisite measures will be applied to prevent it - will result in courts which make disparate judgements, very late, with no real possibility of control apart from what the French call "le parcours du combatant", that is to say, after Lord knows how many years, when the Court in Luxembourg passes judgement, a Court which we know to be inundated at the moment.
Mr President, Mr Katiforis' s report is exciting.
We must bring these reservoirs under Community law and the directives on waste and we must use the precautionary principle to ensure that this type of event does not happen again.
At or around the time of President Clinton's visit to China, the President of the People's Republic of China gave the impression that dialogue was on the agenda.
I end by stressing the need for the European Union to persist with such initiatives, which strive to eliminate inequalities between our regions, and to foster their harmonious development.
It is a question of doing what is technically possible; obviously it is not possible to do anymore, but we must be sufficiently ambitious.
I have not given full and detailed consideration to issues relating to and surrounding questions of liability despite my background, but it seems to me that there may very well be subsidiarity issues involved.
The second point is about scrutiny mechanisms.
The Commission wishes to be judged on results and results alone - on what we achieve.
Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Poettering for advertising this debate.
The Commissioner, Mrs Schreyer, is not here yet, but I hope, and expect, that she will arrive in the next few minutes.
Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Langen - although he is not actually here - for the work he has done to carry through the programme both in Parliament and in the Council.
In a short space of time Mr Schmidt has managed to bring it forward to this final stage within Parliament. I thank him for that.
Officials and ministers from Member States were coming to Brussels, whispering with the Commission and getting a few euros and making a political point by bringing aid back to their constituencies.
I will monitor this situation very closely. If necessary, within and pursuant to the Structural Funds Regulation, I will make comments on the use made, not of Structural Funds which are not yet committed, but of the negotiations prior to the allocation of these Structural Funds.
The European Parliament must now follow once again the exceptional assent procedure of Article 300(3).
The issue of brominated flame retardants is an important one.
I believe there is also a need to raise the de minimis regulation.
Finally, I would like to congratulate Commissioner Reding, Vice-President Imbeni and Mr Gargani, chairman of the Committee on Culture, for the firm and intelligent position which, each within his own role, they have maintained during the entire conciliation process.
I therefore welcome the fact that the issue of food safety, public health and consumer confidence features prominently in the Commission's work programme for 2000.
We are going to work seriously to ensure that the Europeans come to see being European as an advantage and that European citizens have certain fundamental rights which are connected to the Union' s institutions.
I should like to draw attention to the fact that the Council is not present today.
This is riding roughshod over the European institutions in order to defend political ways of thinking, with an incompetence worthy of parties which have just emerged from totalitarian regimes. It is not what you would expect of the representatives of democratic traditions.
That concludes questions to the Council.
I have to say, like motherhood, although we all support it, sometimes we do very little substantially and concretely to help the mothers or the people engaged in energy-saving.
That is why, when we look at the EU Financial Perspective between 1989 and 1993, and 1994 and 1999, we find such a large proportion of the EU budget was put aside for the administration of the European Regional Development Fund and the European Social Fund.
I am quite aware of the fact that the further development of mutual trust and mutual confidence among the judicial systems of the Member States will ease the road we have ahead of us.
If you decide to add this debate to the agenda, it will be introduced by speeches from Mr Seixas da Costa, President-in-Office of the Council, and Mr Romano Prodi, President of the Commission.
In promoting cross-border, transnational and interregional cooperation, this cross-disciplinary instrument is the very incarnation of a regional policy on the European scale intended to encourage harmonious and balanced development of the Community territory.
My Group has included two reasonable requests.
First and foremost, I think it is important that we should establish some clear objectives concerning the condition we should have achieved for our water within a period of no more than 10 years.
Let me explain: it is true that the Israeli Government has delayed the third hand-over of West Bank territory to the Palestinian authorities.
Amendments Nos 2 and 3 go much further than the Commission proposal since they aim to introduce additional provisions on genetically modified additives.
The main objective of the Union' s competition policy cannot be to reduce the overall level of aid.
We, Euskal Herritarrok, have regretted many times the loss of human lives.
We need technical testing of ships, that is obligatory technical testing every two years, and no ship to be operated without the accompanying certificate.
Sadly, only 7.2% of the projects requested receive funds.
Do we want to have a pricing policy which enables all public and private participants to clean up and save water?
We will therefore find ourselves on the threshold of a new model for development policies which - and I would like to stress this - will require action on our part in four essential areas:
OLAF, the European anti-fraud office is one of the most important instruments the Commission has for fulfilling its obligation to combat fraud.
The Commission is displaying intolerable inertia and unacceptable shortcomings.
I also think - as has already been mentioned - that there are certain problems with the financing arrangements, which we must solve.
Indeed, you spoke of releasing funds for timber storage on the grounds that its price must not depreciate.
These brushstrokes are indeed very broad.
Clearly, what is being attempted is to move away from organised systems of social security under state control, towards systems based on private insurance agencies, which will generate new profits for capital and place even greater burdens on working people, who besides the higher cost, will 'enjoy' even more degraded social provisions.
An urgent request has been referred to us, and we approve it.
So this report, Mr President, provides an encouraging range of proposals for improving the way in which the authorities in the UK and elsewhere should respond to the disease.
However, in the case of Sweden, the situation is different.
I personally believe that it is nothing short of scandalous that we hear Members of this Parliament attacking the demonstration rather than looking at the solution to the problem, which is fair conditions, fair pay and fair hours.
All these cases are characterised by the fact that they have been taken care of.
Where is the beef?
And people have spoken in the past about BSE.
The Portuguese Presidency will shortly be presenting a working document on the Eurojust network, since although it is not obviously necessary for judicial control of Europol to be a matter for Eurojust, this option cannot be ruled out at present.
However, I would ask these colleagues to show solidarity with the more than 2 million people who make a living from building cars in Europe, so that these jobs can be secured in the future.
Here we need to realise that there is also a market opportunity in industry for energy savings.
This question covers several individual matters.
The victims are waiting outside.
Although I welcome the fact that the fight against scrapie is included in the TSE regulation, I feel that the Commission' s proposals for fighting scrapie are still not consistent enough and I shall submit amendments on behalf of the Committee for Agriculture and Rural Development to tighten up the proposals when the Roth-Behrendt report is debated.
Mr President, you are a symbol of these changes.
We will have to study several indicators, which will enable us to see the current state of regional societies that are in a worse situation than others, and how they are evolving.
Last week saw the publication in Scotland of a report by a joint government and industry working group on ISA.
I wholeheartedly agree.
This clarification would certainly meet with our approval.
European Union Treaties make it incumbent on us to protect fundamental rights.
I would hope that in future the symbol of European postal policy will no longer be the snail but that our post will finally be dispatched post-haste.
We have already talked about the fate of the political prisoners.
This is why I am voting against the report.
But, as for the future, since we must look ahead, I am extremely concerned to see how URBAN is going to be implemented in practical terms, and also to see what our experience will be and what lessons we can learn, because plainly these urban issues are going to be the focus of what may be, for future financial perspectives, a new European regional planning policy.
In particular, the decision outlines a form of parliamentary control whereby Parliament can sound the alarm if an implementing measure, deriving from an act adopted under the codecision procedure, oversteps the implementing powers delegated to the Commission.
Until that time Prosecutor Del Ponte has decided not to examine any of the accusations of criminality made against NATO.
I am very much hoping in the next few months that the Commission will be able to produce a communication on human rights pointing out, among other things, that there is no disjunction whatsoever between a regard for human rights in China or other places in the world and the trading and commercial interests and other interests of the European Union.
If the labour market functions by means of certain levels of employment, flexibility and salary discipline, then it is impossible for the welfare state and social protection not to function, and vice versa.
Our rapporteur identifies very useful solutions to these difficulties, which I and my group can only support in full.
Which national fund will pay for my end-of-life vehicle?
This results both from the recent conflict and from the years of neglect and lack of maintenance that preceded it.
Another issue, which is somewhat problematic, is that of intermediate storage.
I, personally, would sincerely like to thank Mr von Wogau for his commitment in examining the dossier on the White Paper and for the quality of his report.
Then it is possible to understand that, for example, lower electricity and telecommunications prices are due to European competition policy, and Brussels should not be pilloried when aid decisions are taken which are, of course, bound to cause problems at a particular moment in time or in a local context.
Unfortunately, in the issues covered by the resolutions on future subjects for revisions to the Treaty on European Union, nothing has so far been stated about the need to review Article 7, which deals with suspending a State in the event of a serious and persistent violation of the "founding" principles of the Union, as laid down in Article 6.
A conference where the issues are properly debated will make it possible to straighten out misunderstandings, at the same time as perhaps improving upon certain points.
The water issue will definitely not be settled today.
They already existed in ancient times: they had them in Roman times, although on a smaller scale.
If, in the future, economics and politics and vital decisions for each country are dealt with in the European arena, there is no point killing or dying for being Basque or Spanish' .
In creating a citizens' Europe, social policy has an important role to play.
The first is to create new jobs for young people entering the labour market and the second is not to lose jobs.
It emphasised the importance of the Council taking new measures within a Community framework and in the context of its own work with international organisations.
Two centuries later, we have achieved a great deal in Europe.
But can you also provide confirmation concerning the matter I raise in my question, namely that the programme will be designed in such a way that we shall obtain a concrete timetable for the various types of legislation in the social sphere which the Commission is planning, as well as for those initiatives which the Commission is planning with regard to dialogue between the two sides of industry?
Firstly, although much progress has been made, and we could mention customs administration, bank administration or tax administration, it is true that we must continue to move forward.
Nor do I believe that this is impracticable.
This is also happening elsewhere in the country, causing tension between the Albanian Kosovars and Serbs, making for a situation where nobody trusts anybody anymore and where Albanians do not want to be looked after by Serbs and vice versa.
At the same time the number of partner states has increased considerably, now standing at 71.
(The President cut the speaker off)
The report looks at the issue of harmonising the examination requirements for safety advisors working in the areas of transportation of dangerous goods by road, rail and inland waterway.
Otherwise the purpose of collecting and collating data would be defeated and if the information is not available then the precautionary approach would continue.
Our general policy however, is to recognise the inherent dignity and the unique contribution of indigenous people to the development and plurality of society, something we are looking at particularly keenly in the context of the northern dimension which we are trying to develop and which we are discussing with North America.
We want this opportunity to bring substantial changes to our lives in society at large, we want democracy to be synonymous with equality between men and women, and we do not want women to be excluded socially or economically as is still happening today.
The Erika disaster shows that when sound traffic and transport regulations are lacking at international and European level, nature and the environment come off second-best.
These numbers represent, in our opinion and in the opinion of the Council, a real improvement in terms of conservation in comparison with the level of 80% laid down in Council Regulation 685/95.
I am only very surprised that the Socialist group would like to subordinate this proposal to one tabled by Mrs Morgan, because she wants to scrap it altogether.
I am very glad to know that I can count on your support here.
It will not be just one of the screenings that the Commission has periodically undertaken but a very thorough and sharp review within Directorates-General and across the Commission for which we have established a mechanism for reviewing the demands on us and the means that we have to meet those demands.
The values at stake are too central, too fundamental for us to accept dithering or compromises.
We also note that, as before, there are still various DGs which stifle this policy with often very conflicting procedures and arguments.
This is not just the fault of the Commission, but I believe that we need to take action more quickly so as to achieve harmonisation in this area as well.
(Applause)
The quest for equality should permeate the work of the Directorate-General for Development at all levels.
The basic objectives of an EU-wide employment policy are laid down in the guidelines and include employability, entrepreneurship and adaptability.
In fact we need more emotional statements to remind us that all these issues have a human side.
The fact that an openly extremist, racist and xenophobic party can reach power in a Member State of the European Union will inevitably be a source of concern to the other States that are taking part in the European project. The European Commission is certainly not indifferent to the matter either.
This debate, I think, has summed it up.
It is, therefore, with good reason that we bring this up here today.
It would be self-indulgent and self-defeating, as well as insulting to over a fifth of humanity, to want anything else.
In terms of human rights, this is a backward step.
I think we must do what we can to see that all Members can receive their own national channel.
Tourism is an activity that falls decidedly and fundamentally within the competence of the European Union.
Codecision and unanimity do not go hand in hand.
But we are also convinced that, despite improved relations between the Turkish and Greek populations, it is not enough.
Commissioner, I am quite familiar with the constraints imposed by the Treaties, but I believe that, it must be emphasised once again that the European economy is finding it hard to compete with the American economy, especially because of insufficiently open markets and a lack of genuine competition.
That is the political core of the challenge and I think you have identified it well before this House today.
There is no complacency, no fragility and no ambiguity about any of that at all.
. Let me associate myself, not least as a former Environment Minister, completely and without any reservation whatsoever, with the expressions of concern by honourable Members.
The Commission proposes redistributing the INTERREG funding as follows: between 50 and 80% for strand A, 6% for strand C, and the remainder for strand B, i.e. from 14 up to a maximum of 44%.
My second question is about whether the Portuguese Presidency can accept a solution which involves the tax issue' s being solved in different ways for Members of different nationalities, or whether you want a solution which is identical for members of all nationalities.
Turning to the specific questions that Mrs Terrón i Cusí has put to us, I shall group them into three basic areas: the fight against organised crime, the operation of the Judicial Network, particularly as regards criminal matters, and questions on Europol.
In respect of future provisions on aid for the steel sector, which will come into force in July 2002, we will ensure that strict discipline continues to be applied, and the industry itself now agrees on the need for this.
For our part, we will tell the farmers about the expediency of these programmes.
They are all tarred with the same dirty brush!
On average, to manage $US 10 million of aid there are 2.9 staff at the Commission, compared with 4.3 at the World Bank and between 4 and 9 in major Member States.
I am glad to say to Mr van Hulten and Mr Haarder that the detailed recommendations on recruitment, training, appraisal and the appointment to management positions are very much in line with our own thinking and our own proposals.
These are what are missing.
In this sense, the Commission must insist on building up the common area of freedom, security and justice and in this sense I disagree with the last two speakers.
If we do not provide rapid assistance then the situation will deteriorate and new conflicts and crisis situations may arise.
In addition to this one overture there is a second which we have already suggested to the Member States: greater financial flexibility between strand A and strand B. Thanks to these two overtures, especially the first, I can say that the Commission is willing to examine the case of Italian regions and regions of third countries around the Adriatic in order to promote the most appropriate cooperation under INTERREG, and with other instruments too, as soon as they become available.
This failure is illustrated by the fact that after an entire war that was waged to put an end to ethnic cleansing, we now have ethnic cleansing from the opposite side.
There is, therefore a need for a fully-fledged human rights policy for and by the European Union, a policy which promotes and enforces human rights within the EU itself.
The police force should be large enough for it to be a visible presence, so that people can believe that it is in a position to stop atrocities. It should also be large enough to be able to clear up crimes and punish those who are guilty of them.
For this to be possible, what we need from the European Commission are not just good intentions, but clearer guidelines and a firm commitment to monitoring the way these resources are used by the Member States.
Let us ensure, Mr President, Commissioner, that this time we really do learn the lesson, even after the media hype and the shock of this House have died down.
That is why I and my Group are proposing three key amendments and additions to the text, not to take anything away from the proposal, but to make it more relevant to those whom it is there to guide.
Not only the Alpine region, but all our countries are involved: the conditions are being created whereby democracy and European civilisation may once again come under threat.
As Parliament, we are, of course, expecting to be able to contribute to the resolution you mentioned - we are ready and waiting - but we expect an authoritative intervention on this, which can on no account be allowed to reach its conclusion and be forgotten, as has almost happened already.
I support this proposal for a resolution, especially the points which refer to the application of Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty, and point 11 of this resolution establishing a link between the Structural Funds allocated and the fight against exclusion.
As for the inspections, very much a key question, the first thing we have to consider is how the current legislation has worked, as Mr Hatzidakis has said.
The second point I would like to make is that we would have preferred it if the guidelines had been added to the regulation in the form of an annex, as we and Mrs McCarthy, as rapporteurs for the general regulation, had asked.
This will be a good opportunity to address the need to take similarly courageous steps to improve the Palestinian administration and to bolster the rule of law.
A directive which we put together just for the sake of it would not be worthy of this House.
Lastly, his proposal would not give any passport to management companies which do not want to render ISD activities.
This change is taken in conjunction with Amendments Nos 1, 4 and 7.
Parliament has not yet indicated why permission was withdrawn.
I would like to remind all of you that Spain is about to hold elections, and in fact there are just 25 days left before the elections.
Key sub-goals are: promoting employment and ensuring that work secures a fixed income; secondly, safeguarding old-age pensions and making these affordable; thirdly, promoting social integration and fourthly, guaranteeing affordable, first-rate health protection.
The other area of concern related to the range of data to be collected under the regulation.
Nor is it possible to support the rapporteur' s call for the European Development Fund to be merged with the Community budget.
In the context of providing information, I would like to draw the Commission' s attention to the fact that we are very concerned about the present draft plans on public access to documents.
Europe will press ahead with integration; at the same time the Union will start an enlargement process which will, in the end, reunite our continent.
We all regret that the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN) has not been able, in the required time, to carry out the amendment of the provisions necessary for the required harmonisation within the European Union.
What was remarkable about this dossier was the enormous pressure from the Council of Ministers.
Mr President, I would like to take a brief, critical look at the accession negotiations with Malta and would like to express my gratitude to, and admiration for, the many NGOs that have at least rolled up their sleeves in order to save animals.
But the CFSP will never be anything else other than a cover for the national interests that already manage to dominate the system.
The forced relocation scheme must be stopped unconditionally.
I remind Mr Jonckheer that Irish companies or foreign companies in Ireland still have to cross two sea masses to reach the mainland European marketplace.
Disabled people have too often been left off the list.
Ideally, I would like Amendment No 45 to fall tomorrow so that the common position on Article 9 would hold on water charges.
With regard to the centre of main interests of a company or of a legal person, this idea is clearly defined in Article 3.
I was deeply disappointed at the news this week that the peace talks between Israel and Syria had been suspended.
It will be easier to take account of the developing countries' very diverse problems, and EU aid could be prepared and implemented in a more targeted manner if, as the report makes quite clear, we take the urgently needed step of optimising our working methods, by introducing the proposed regional assemblies.
I just want to point to one issue which in my view is not considered in the report and which raises a major problem in relation to Macedonia and the effectiveness of EU financial and other support.
I should like to ask that we consider granting derogations not only in the Nordic countries but also for mountainous areas - the Alps, the Pyrenees and the Sierra Nevada, from where I have just returned - in respect of population size and density.
Austria must take the responsibility on its own shoulders for the often dubious image other countries tend to have of it, rightly or wrongly.
Subject: Promoting jobs for women in severely less-favoured regions Given the enormous difficulties in obtaining work which women face in certain severely less-favoured regions, and given that these women very seldom have any resources to draw on, in terms of either finance, entrepreneurial or cooperative traditions or even training facilities, living as they do in rural districts where 80% of the population is on the poverty line, what measures or actions are planned to help these women overcome the hurdle of their social environment?
Since diverse types of investment are permitted, private investors can also benefit from all the advantages of new investment techniques.
There is far too much talk about stability, convergence and coordination and far too little about the factors which give rise to innovation and development.
Paragraph D points out that "the Union may provide added value by adoption of proper binding and effective convergence criteria" , and the report goes on to emphasise that the development of this convergence process is to be promoted by means of joint talks between the Ecofin Council and the Social Affairs and Employment Councils.
Collective investment undertakings became an alternative to saving with a bank.
I agree with Mr Leinen that the wording of the initiative is indeed very difficult and hard to understand.
Mr Andersson also wants to see efficient and ambitious tax coordination, that is to say supranationalism in the fiscal sphere.
However, since state aid forms the lion' s share of the competition report 1998 I would still like, regardless of Mr Jonckheer' s report, to say one more thing about it.
You will know that there are currently two preliminary issues before the Court of Justice, both brought by German courts, which question the feasibility of applying 81(1) without being able to apply 81(3).
I do not think it is necessary for classic cars to be part of the directive.
This is true in our part of the world, but our partners and beneficiaries in Africa have a slightly different perspective.
When we talk of transparency in the food chain, that applies from the hayfork to the table fork and consumer protection therefore logically starts with feedingstuffs.
Future generations of women must not be sidelined.
Could the Commissioner answer two questions.
We need far more and I hope that the Commissioner will come back with those promises and also with an initiative to coordinate some of the efforts there.
In my view, however, the development policy itself needs to be more coherent too.
Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth and final aspect that I would like to draw to your attention, regarding development policy, is, of course, the Development Council. There have been discussions, especially in recent months, about the role the Development Council could play in relation to EU policies.
I am firmly convinced that we need a strict, tight timetable in order to work towards our long-term objective.
It is hard to understand why the French and the Europeans allow something which the Americans refuse to accept, and why Europe, normally so quick to pass environmental legislation, has chosen to overlook the matter of maritime safety.
The group of representatives is currently meeting in Brussels and I will try to join them as soon as possible.
I might add that all rational political campaigning in my own country, Denmark, takes it for granted that, when we enlarge the circle of EU countries to include the envisaged huge number of new Member States and when we in that way extend the breadth of the Union, we cannot at the same time pursue further integration in depth, that is to say engage in a more intensive qualitative integration towards a United States of Europe.
In organising the public service no consideration must be given to the idea of profitability, and private firms must not be authorised to amass private profits by carrying off the most profitable public service activities.
The agreement could enter into force in three to four years from now, given the time needed for ratification in Member States' parliaments.
Instead of fighting amongst themselves, public postal services should cooperate, take staff on and guarantee decent, stable working conditions, while meeting the needs of service users in terms of both post delivery and savings bank services.
At the end of the day, Israeli voters can still express an opinion on the return of the Golan.
Madam President, as a Padanian taxpayer, I have already experienced the vice-like grip of the taxman and former Prime Minister of Italy, Mr Prodi, since Padania is liable to Italy for its taxes as well.
As an elected representative for the Loire-Atlantique region, unfortunately, I can testify to this.
Europe, Japan and the US - the euro, the yen and the dollar, would constitute, in my opinion, such a block.
Madam President, today we have an appointment with hypocrisy.
I am now going to briefly discuss the main issues on which the Spanish Socialist delegation differs somewhat from certain positions which have been expressed here.
That is to say that experts are ever more convinced that climate change and human activities, in general terms, are linked to the increase seen in natural disasters in recent years.
One issue which is referred to in the van der Laan report is the whole question of the Gaza hospital.
On your second point of renewable energy which, as you know, is of great interest to me, the Commission' s approach is given in the document on the Structural Funds and their coordination with the Cohesion Funds.
However, the appointment was cancelled at the last minute.
B5-0162/2000 by Mrs Díez González and others, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, on the outbursts of racism and xenophobia in El Ejido (Spain);
On behalf of the TDI Group, I should like to take the opportunity afforded by Judge Di Pietro' s report on mutual assistance in criminal matters to refer to a case which is a tragic illustration of the way crime is eroding security in Europe.
That has only happened recently.
Our country was not just the first victim of the Hitler dictatorship, many people were perpetrators too, although I refute any suggestion of collective guilt.
In this connection I should like to ask one of our Swedish MEPs for an opinion of the study which has been carried out and which shows that in fact in the most remote areas of Sweden the postal service was rather poor in terms of distribution.
Even the British Minister, Peter Hain, conceded this recently. We should ensure that the oil revenue is not used merely to finance the war or to line the pockets of prominent members of government, he told President Dos Santos last month.
A proper plan for fighting unemployment must be established for this is the scourge which is allowing the rise of racism, xenophobia, nationalism and extreme-right racist movements.
I regret that the manufacturers have harangued the European Parliament and the Council with a whole ream of arguments which either cut no ice or were simply false.
Commissioner, if the European institutions really believe in what they say about full employment, they must take clear steps to secure this.
I am opposing Amendments 7 to 13 which were decisively rejected by the Fisheries Committee.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commissioner.
When we submitted our report, we referred to the risks posed by growth.
This can be prevented if a European social model is drawn up and if results are achieved in all these concrete areas.
Since then, of course, this Europe with pretensions to federalism is now more than ever financed like the commonplace intergovernmental organisation it actually is, but which it refuses to see itself as.
Question No 47 by (H-0088/00):
On their course towards accession, the people of Cyprus have already lost a great deal, but stand to lose even more.
If we translate this number into figures for the EU countries as a whole, which is not an unreasonable thing to do if no review is to take place, we shall not have 60 000 men but, at best, 35 000 to 40 000 by the year 2003.
It is now widely accepted that fishing has effects on marine environment which are much more wide-ranging and pervasive than simple capture of target species with a little bit of by-catch.
The Commission confirmed then, as it does today, that it shares the concerns underlying the Portuguese Presidency' s statement of 1 February 2000.
What difference does it make if the national level is no longer going to function?"
With regard to your suggestion for increasing the Court' s resources, the Council considers that all of the Union' s institutions have, under the Community budget, the necessary financial means for them to be able to properly carry out their respective remits.
There are three main aspects that need to be highlighted.
My message of solidarity also goes out to the mayors and politicians, to the volunteers who have worked to clean the affected areas and to all those who deserve our full support.
I would first like to say how indebted I am to the Commission for seizing the initiative, and for the two draft directives we are discussing here today.
Given the fact that there are many houses in rural areas which are of historic interest, including small cottages, and, given the need, for a variety of reasons, to maintain rural populations and to attract people to rural areas, does not the Council agree that these objectives could be assisted if housing projects were funded in the areas covered by INTERREG?
At long last, the European Union realises that it cannot afford to always give the Americans the political and military initiative.
The second point I would like to make - and which I would have wished to make yesterday before the vote - is that this Parliament, as other speakers remarked yesterday, can only really have an effect if it works in close cooperation and synergy with the European Commission.
That is my third request - that we look carefully at these measures before passing this measure as a whole.
Yet we do not know whether this has been accepted by the governments. Outside the Community arena, some governments are making efforts to renew their immigration policies.
Relating to Amendment No 31
The objective is of course to create, first and foremost, a clear general framework which will allow the law in this area to be simplified.
However, there are many underlying problems yet to be resolved.
To be proactive the White Paper identifies a number of new areas that would be embraced by the authority.
Beyond the Milky Way there are 300 billion other galaxies with countless stars and planets.
The Council common position reached a reasonable compromise in that the manufacturers should pay a significant part of the cost, not all of it as Mr Bowis has mistakenly said.
This is why the Commission regrets that it is unable to accept the following amendments to the first proposal:
It is true that economic aid is, in this respect, certainly an essential element to the scope of action afforded those people active at the grass roots level.
In this way we will also be able to speed up matters in surrounding rural areas; it is often forgotten that urban and rural problems in fact go hand in hand.
We are talking about us, not Austria.
Is there some sort of provision which will allow the system as a whole to have this administrative autonomy?
The tradition which has already been established by the previous programmes with the countries of the south, particularly the countries around the Mediterranean, must not be abandoned.
There is a case as the Commissioner mentioned for the implementation of a rapid response facility and rapid response force in situations like this to deal with crises such as we have there because we simply did not have the strategies or the logistical preparations in place.
It is important that they use their initiative and their own local expertise in developing this initiative.
The dialogue on Europe - institutional reform
Children are conscripted by force and deployed in battle.
The tourism market is by definition a flexible market; we do not want this flexibility to be seen in a solely negative light, with seasonal work being misinterpreted as illegal work: remember that 50% of employment, especially in southern countries of the European Union, is done on the black economy.
These decisions must be defended by the Commission in ICCAT. This is why our committee asked to be consulted in advance and to be represented at the meetings as an observer in order to ensure greater and better control and to reinforce the European Parliament' s role.
I think that it is quite obvious, and this is the first conclusion that can be drawn from the Erika disaster, that public opinion would find it hard to understand that we regulate chocolate but do not regulate maritime transport.
As for the future, given that the Commission has shown itself incapable of taking action against fascism in Austria, I am convinced that blocking measures to liberalise the single market is the only way of administering a salutary electric shock treatment to the heart of all the countries in the Union.
It should be acknowledged, however, that he noted down and undertook to answer as quickly as possible the questions asked by Members.
If car manufacturers all set up their own dismantling companies, this will necessitate transporting end-of-life vehicles over long distances.
Thank you for your reply.
That is the sort of thing that we have to develop in the European Union and we have to face up to the fact that there are resource consequences.
It is considered that without these changes undesirably high costs in the collection of data could be incurred in Member States and that there could also be serious problems of confidentiality.
We should do everything within our power to force the regions into a situation where they have to compete with each other.
Could I thank Mr Harbour for the energetic commitment that he has shown to the issue on which he is rapporteur and respond to him by saying that we firmly believe that the morale, the motivation and the professional commitment of Commission officials, which is already very strong, will be enhanced by the introduction of comprehensive training, the allocation of responsibility, the upgrading of management and a number of other changes which we will be introducing.
I come from Munich, a very densely populated urban conglomeration, but we have the same problem there.
It is dealt with by means of a general clause which does not provide any definition.
The situation of Turkey's relations with its neighbours will, as the honourable Member asks, be closely examined in the framework of the pre-accession strategy.
In the meantime, however, as has already been mentioned, the negotiations on the future of the Lomé Convention have been concluded.
We believe that a more liberal market is the best way forward.
If need be, the report shall contain a proposal to amend the decision, and this should be achieved by 30 June 2002.
I should like to raise three points which for us, as Members of the PPE Group, must be focal points when such an area is created.
(Parliament adopted the resolution) EXPLANATIONS OF VOTE
Mrs Angelilli, thank you. I have taken note of your comment.
So, whatever has been stated in this regard, vintage cars and motorcycles are not included under the directive.
What does one suppose has been the consequence of all that flooding over the last few days, moving those anti-personnel mines around?
Parliament is here renewing its call for an improvement and for cross-border cooperation, and we look forward to a joint fund being created and to the regulation being amended once more in cooperation with the other Commissioners.
(Parliament approved the Commission proposal)
Instead, communities in urban areas should be encouraged to present integrated action plans to tackle their specific urban problems, using EU resources as a value added to local actions.
Subsistence farming is not based on price calculations, it is based on the hope of rain in the next season.
It is good that URBAN is to continue, as it has had good results at local level.
In addition, amendments which ban the transfer of water from one hydrological basin to another would condemn many areas in my country to water shortage.
(More than twelve Members of Parliament rise to their feet) (Parliament adopted the resolution)
As you know, the European Community has contributed a total of EUR 378 million for the province of Kosovo alone, and this has to be seen in conjunction with the contributions made by Member States at national level.
What we find most shocking is the fact that this joint intervention claims the authority of the Treaty, as if this stated somewhere that henceforth the free and democratic expression of a people could be cancelled by the will of the heads of government of neighbouring countries who in fact, in this instance, have carefully refrained from consulting their own peoples.
We must resolve this issue, because it is important that consumers should regain confidence in the food they eat.
This is key as regards the future of this issue.
At the Commission's suggestion, the mudflats at Stegrennan were formally included in the Boyne Estuary special protection area, from which they had previously been excluded.
I wish you a good evening.
But as an entrepreneur myself, I really cannot understand why it is always assumed this can only be done under the headings of "privatisation" and "liberalisation"!
Animals are bought throughout Europe and transported over the entire continent.
There have always been natural disasters and there always will be.
What your texts do not make apparent is the extent to which these major, high-minded objectives are compatible with the resources that the Commission intends to deploy.
We know that the Commission may perhaps need the scope to negotiate a situation which would be acceptable to all parties.
It is therefore with some justification that competition policy is one of the most important policies.
I urge the Commission to be less cautious.
I think, however, that common rules have to be applied to this sector, so that we do not find ourselves at some stage somewhere out in the Wild West, or even the Wild East. We need rules in common based on equality and the principle of a public service.
The conclusion reached regarding conciliation with regard to the Altener programme as put forward by the Conciliation Committee is, after all the difficult phases it has been through, at least satisfactory.
The proposed directive provides for strict liability for damage caused by EU-regulated dangerous activities and my concern, and perhaps the Commissioner can deal with this, is whether or not the environmental liability paper will be able to deal with problems of the type of Erika in future. Will it really address the concern or will, in practice, in the case of maritime accidents involving ships on the high seas, the polluter once again escape from having to pay for the damage they cause.
On the other hand, the Turkish Cypriots fear - and there is no point in trying to conceal this - that Turkey' s application for membership of the European Union may lead to greater flexibility in Ankara' s position on this.
Only the Amsterdam Treaty lasted a year and a half and that was because everyone knew you had to wait for the results of the British election if you were going to have any outcome from that IGC so that was a different reason.
Statements were made and pressure was brought to bear on the various Member States who have undertaken to make police resources available to honour their commitments.
I would like to know what you and Europe are doing, Mr Solana, or what you intend to do in the near future, to stave off this threat of war.
Unfortunately, the other branch of the legislative power, the Council, has not yet - more than one year after the presentation of the proposal - begun working on it.
I do not believe that ejecting emissions at sea, and particularly in a closed environment like the Mediterranean, when we want to clean up purification plants, is a good way to clean up water.
As Commissioner Wallström indicated during the hearings in the European Parliament in September 1999, the Commission will bring up the issue of nuclear safety and radiation protection in any relevant meeting with the Turkish Government in the future and I am happy to inform you that I will have a meeting with the Turkish Foreign Minister in a couple of days and will certainly raise the issue.
Because, as well as the irreparable damage to the environment, the damage to the ecosystem and losses in the tourist industry, the oil slick dealt a huge blow to the fishing industry, to the conservation of marine resources, and the damaged coast lines will take years to recover.
My Group believes that since a parliament is meant to listen, debate and reflect, there can be no justification whatsoever for this delay and we believe that, if the Commission is ready to do so, we still have time to re-establish the original agreement between Parliament and the Commission and proceed in a manner which fulfils our duty to our fellow citizens.
We are also committed to the Security Council' s sanctions against UNITA, including arms controls.
The rapporteur and the report are right to start from the premise that we should, and must, provide help swiftly, however it is also right to start from the premise that we will not provide help indefinitely or at random.
The first is that data originating from studies and samples should be used as a source of data whose collection could otherwise be interminable. The second is that the requirement for data referring strictly to the taxation of enterprises should be removed from the Commission' s proposal, bearing in mind that this tax data does not come within the Community competence.
These frontiers stretch as far as African states and the Middle East: we must take greater account of the fact that it is also important to develop coastal regions in every part of Europe.
Our Parliament first asked experts to help it evaluate the performance of the European Commission and they took advantage of this invitation to determine, themselves, what its future should be.
Together, we must re-establish the values which unite Europe.
Mr Barnier has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
People should no longer be forced to move.
I have given you a statement on behalf of the Commission which I think provides a useful background to this discussion.
We cannot maintain a situation in which the poorest countries of the world are most exposed to the speculative arguments surrounding short-term currency fluctuations.
It is the young people who are disappearing, who are getting an education and finding work outside of the rural areas, all of which has an unfavourable effect on those areas.
In February, Commission Regulation 394/2000 designed to protect Irish Sea cod stocks was issued.
The Commission feels, for this reason too, that it should not present a modified proposal for amendments to the regulation, but I would nevertheless like to convey to you the Commission' s opinions on the amendments under discussion.
Some businesses have become hi-tech businesses, because they managed to recycle certain materials, even materials which are not yet included in the directive.
Mr President, the question at issue is the income from the Swedish alcohol monopoly and when the Swedish Government says that it must cover health costs, then this is proof of a distortion of competition because other countries must cover their health costs themselves, with no alcohol monopoly at their disposal.
Where is the sense of crisis which generations before us had?
I would remind you that this Group, the PPE-DE, does not like to finance new political initiatives at the expense of existing ones.
As George Robertson has said so often, we have two million soldiers but could not even put 40 000 soldiers into Kosovo.
Economic operators will be more inclined to establish closer relations with their ACP partners.
The goal for the years to come is to increase women' s participation to achieve a rate of 40% female participation in the Marie Curie grants, in consultative assemblies and in evaluation panels for the whole of the fifth framework programme for research and technical development.
We must, of course, always ensure that we use our resources in the most effective manner and in such a way that they provide the broadest possible help.
The basic aim of the communication is twofold.
Just think of the road accidents which have occurred over recent years, for example in Belgium, the Netherlands and a number of other countries where lorries carrying dangerous goods continued to drive in foggy conditions when really they should have pulled off the road instead.
(Loud applause)
This could just as well be 0% - the internal market would still be harmonised.
Thank you very much.
What I do not understand is why this has to come at a price, as it were, that is, of having to dispense with independent - and I stress, independent - prior approval.
There is not one party, from the far left to the far right, which does not stress the need for women to take part.
This was the choice also made by Israel where Europe suffers from a partisan public image, and this is a fact, not a judgement.
This fact means that the European Parliament, the Commissioner and the Commission must act decisively and strategically.
I welcome the availability of funding for national programmes, even taking into consideration provisions concerning the minimum programmes to be met.
Mr President, I believe Mr Alavanos is getting NATO and Mr Milosevic mixed up.
Much has been achieved on many issues in Europe, but we are still far from resolving the question of equal representation.
Although in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs we were very much in agreement with the aims of the legislative amendment, the debate we had was not the easiest one.
These will consist of everything from insurance to sensible and effective scrapping and recycling systems.
Mr President of the Commission, allow me to close with these words: as the Group of the European People' s Party and the European Democrats, we have every interest in a strong Commission.
It did this as well.
We are concerned to hear news that the Commission is taking this objective less seriously.
But it is time for the legislation to be updated.
Its implementation would certainly require extending the scope of redistribution instruments such as the Structural Funds.
Of course, the scientists do not all see eye to eye on this yet, but the majority of them are fairly convinced that if we continue to emit greenhouse gases as we are doing, these storms will, of course, hit us much harder still at the dawn of this new century.
Mrs Theato' s report may help to restore confidence in European institutions.
And let us not forget that the de facto neo-colonial policy of certain Member States does nothing to help the countries which they are supposedly helping to develop.
Now that is not a contradiction, since the demand for an instrument of criminal law and criminal proceedings law, as detailed in Recommendations I and II of the report, is actually about taking action in the EU' s own interests, which, as far as that goes, does not damage the legal interests of the Member States; on the contrary, it protects them, at least indirectly.
Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for some excellent work in drafting this important directive.
Mrs Lynne, you are quite right and I shall check whether this has actually not been done.
It is one of the most powerful weapons Parliament has and must therefore be deployed with care.
Let me begin by specifying precisely what we are debating. Article 178, Title XX of the consolidated Treaties of the European Union reads as follows: "The Community shall take account of the objectives referred to in Article 177 in the policies that it implements which are likely to affect developing countries" .
I could not agree more with the rapporteur: a balance must be struck between promoting regional cooperation on the one hand and maintaining the openness towards Bulgaria and Greece, and not cutting them off on the other.
In our opinion, it is clear that the left wing in the European Parliament, in association with the Austrian left wing which was defeated in the electoral arena, have mounted a petty political campaign resorting to the memory of a sinister but fortunately bygone period.
Everyone understands, Mrs Schroedter, ladies and gentlemen, the reasons and the time limits involved - and I shall come back to this point presently - and whatever the time limits or delays, since we are discussing this report right now, as the representative for the Commission, I consider that the report has been issued at an opportune moment with regard to the guidelines for 2000-2006 as it is now that we are starting the new regional programming.
I believe that the first one was implicitly recognised by the Commissioner in his speech when he wondered whether these catastrophes are natural or not.
Although the European Parliament supports this initiative, our only regret is that we have to approve a resolution on it before we have seen any evaluation of INTERREG II.
Commissioner, it is quite significant that at the beginning of this new century people in Europe, men and women, are being called upon to redefine their rights and obligations.
It was therefore necessary to introduce an economic analysis.
My Group is also opposed in principle to the naming of specific companies in this resolution, for two reasons: firstly because this creates selective responsibility.
In the final analysis, we feel that proposals such as the proposal for a European Public Prosecutor demonstrate an inability to conceive of a Europe in anything other than a centralised and hierarchical form, organised around a superstate.
May I, to finish off, thank Mrs Berger for the great care she has taken in studying the different amendments and for having, in that way, added an important degree of meaning to her report?
I should like to take this opportunity to remind the Commissioner of some requests and initiatives of this Parliament which her predecessor did not follow up and which are closer to our hearts than the quotas.
On the contrary, I think that this demand can only be considered satisfied by a de jure full normalisation of FYROM' s relations with all its neighbours.
The Commission is not and will not be a secretariat of any kind, and that is clear to all of the institutions - it is well understood everywhere.
. (DA) The Danish Social Democrats in the European Parliament have today voted in favour of Mrs Monica Frassoni' s report, according to which the European Parliament is to accept the agreement entered into with the Commission about the implementing provisions for the Council' s decision of 28 June 1999 concerning comitology.
To really guarantee sustainability - a buzzword which has, since it gained new currency, become relatively devoid of meaning, but we all know what we mean by it - what is needed, amongst other things, is an integrated approach in the countryside towards, for example, tourism and agriculture.
And finally, there are the cross-border aspects. I shall endeavour to comply with your recommendations on all these points.
Mr President, I am in the happy position of being able to refer to a couple of striking contributions from a small group of Nordic sceptics and opponents of the drastic and growing integration process which, looked long and hard at, threatens the whole of democratic Europe.
I support the proposed deadline for the Commission being 30 September in a proposed amendment.
We estimate that the Commission' s new social action programme for the next five years will be ready at the end of this summer.
I shall give the floor straight away to the President, Mr Romano Prodi.
The general impression at present is that anything budget-related within Europe is bad.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your statement.
This is a decision of national and local government, and this is where all future decisions should be retained.
I can gauge its importance for my country' s international reputation.
Why do we have to vote on this opinion tomorrow, 3 February, as a matter of urgency, when we could wait, in a position of strength, until the opening of the Strasbourg part-session on 14 February, and thus force an agenda that is complete, and therefore consistent, on the Council.
If you feel that these sessions after a Commission statement are important, I would suggest that we require more time than the half-hour that is allocated to them.
In line with the resolution at the Nassau meeting, we must concentrate on meeting the poverty reduction targets agreed by the international community.
The policy of minorities, while neglecting the deep-seated unity of the human family, to establish superficial divisions, is a dangerous threat to the cohesion of the social fabric and the equilibrium of our democratic system.
It is a considerable achievement of the Convention that where at all possible requested Member States shall comply with the formalities and procedures indicated by the requesting Member States.
We share them with everyone on this earth.
It is nonetheless unnecessary to make it a condition that all the measures for controlling demand should be adopted.
Mr President, I would like firstly to express my appreciation to the Commission for the improvement represented by the XXVIIIth report on competition policy in the Union, when compared to previous reports.
The elections to the European Parliament in 1999 showed perfectly clearly that the people of Europe do not fall in with the notion of an ever more federalist EU centred upon Brussels.
That does not apply to Austria alone.
That is what this framework decision is about.
Mr President, nine million cars are shredded and scrapped every year in Europe.
This policy mix will undoubtedly be good for investment and will lead to growth.
It was this practice which led to the Commission' s downfall.
I should also like to welcome Mrs Havel, who is sitting in the gallery.
If this cannot be adopted as the objective, then I am naturally prepared to support the proposal to the effect that we should have achieved levels very close to zero by the year 2020.
I also want to see a China transformed by peaceful change into a free pluralist society which does not lock up democracy activists or religious believers.
One of the most frequent criticisms of Community competition law is its excessive red tape.
This ought to be done with, in particular, a view to combating poverty and through investing in the development of capacity.
Mr President, the Committee on Industry decided to go ahead and draw up a report on the discharge for 1997 although we were not specifically asked to do so.
In terms of human rights, Europe has a very eventful past and this is why we have become to some extent the cradle of these human rights.
Is there currently a sufficient legal basis for justifying, in legal terms, the creation of a specifically Community-wide criminal law which, although it might be called subsidiary, will always clash with the practice, and in certain areas, with the traditional, separate criminal law of the Member States?
Five amendments have been presented by Parliament.
It was approved by the House in May 1999, when the need for women in research and technology was stressed.
I wish I could honestly say to him that we will be compiling and providing in the form of proposals communications before 2001 and certainly be putting them into effect before 2002, but he will be aware there are legally required consultation procedures and periods which we must respect.
I respect Parliament' s wish, as it has been expressed, but I must also say that the self-determination of peoples cannot be called into question, even by the European Parliament.
Numerous very difficult questions are bound to arise, but the only real problem which I can see so far is one of political will and the St. Florian principle of shifting responsibility from one agency to another which has now taken hold.
The German Government' s intervention to save the Holzmann group was criticised as an unjustifiable constraint upon the market economy.
Therefore, the responsibility of the European Union has to be seen in a certain context.
I am convinced that the four other countries are wondering what is going to happen.
All asylum-seekers must be entitled to a fair hearing and an appeal with suspensory effect.
The answer is that this is smuggled into the country or made by the Swedes themselves, and as Mr Andersson knows, this is an extremely dangerous and unhealthy activity.
However, we shall intensify our collaboration and our dialogue with the national parliaments for the entire duration of the Intergovernmental Conference.
I wish to assure you, firstly, that the merging of the periodic reports and the report on cohesion should not entail any loss of information or loss of interest as regards the content of the report on cohesion which is, as far as I am concerned, Mr Berend, an extremely important instrument, not only to provide information on what has been achieved in a transparent and rigorous manner, so that future guidelines may be examined or evaluated, but also to create a public debate involving the citizens of Europe and, furthermore, with the elected representatives, i.e. yourselves, on the subject of this regional policy and what might one day be a European regional planning policy.
On the contrary, I think it is our duty to call on the Commission and the Council, which unfortunately is not present, to insist that the United Nations consider the question of the final status of Kosovo, of the multiplicity of micro-states in the region, of what happens post-Dayton and, finally, the question of real stability which can allow democracy to be built up in these countries and give the European Union a policy in this region.
All these elements have to apply cumulatively.
It is not by chance that, immediately after Helsinki, the Turkish Prime Minister, Bulent Ecevit, stated that the Cyprus issue had been resolved in 1974.
He is a dangerous man.
I am in favour of stringent environmental requirements, as you know from the auto-oil programme and the debate on exhaust emissions, but I believe that they should be the same for everyone!
We have to lay down the rules of play today, before we all lose.
We consider it to be indispensable and urgently needed and hope that it actually comes up with the goods that will enable us to carry out enlargement of the European Union in the not too distant future.
Among the contradictions in the accounts that have been given, there has also been an attempt to reassure international public opinion over Mr Babitsky' s fate, by confirming the theory that there was an exchange of prisoners with Chechen fighters which, inter alia, if this did actually take place, would constitute a breach of international law, which certainly does not provide for the involvement of civilians in such circumstances.
As such, I would prefer to withhold any comment on the situation which Mr Berenguer has just described.
The Chief Commissioner of Police, Svend Frederiksen, has expressed his desperation at the fact that he constantly has to make do with less than half the manpower which was agreed.
When the US killed 2 000 people in Panama, it was not to impose their politics, it was to combat drug trafficking.
The target date for concluding the negotiations is December this year but this will depend to a very large extent on the goodwill and determination of the negotiators.
We are familiar with Parliament' s views and we know that Parliament is aware of the views of the Council' s legal advisers.
Furthermore, it would show a lack of solidarity to make transfers of water, between different river basins, practically impossible in the future.
Turkey is only looking to increase its energy potential by 2% with this unit.
Yesterday we honoured our institution with a political debate.
Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Lienemann on her sensitive approach towards the environment, ably demonstrated in the two reports we have discussed this evening.
That is a measure of the importance to us of our postal services.
In the emotion, pain and fury of the agreements, it was impossible to break the vicious circle of blood and vengeance.
I cannot fully grasp the underlying rationale.
The second point is that we must bear in mind the legal basis by virtue of which the European Commission can operate.
But the figures tell the true story.
It seems that you are proposing the same old menu, but with more unsatisfactory implications, restricting the Commission, so you say, to the task of drawing up a few White Papers, as you proposed.
However, justice delayed is justice denied, and we must reflect on this notion.
That is my judgement at the moment.
Fraud, mismanagement and nepotism do not come from nowhere.
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that this is an appropriate initiative and that it makes very good sense.
I would like to say that the work carried out during this time by Parliament has been of a high quality, and I therefore congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Langen and also all the various speakers who have spoken both in committee and here in plenary.
Even if he advocates sustainable growth, sustainability does not come into it.
The next item is the joint debate on the following reports:
As already stated the proposal for the Council decision falls into two parts.
Madam President, in the opinion of the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party, the most important task of the Commission and the whole Union in the coming years is the successful realisation of enlargement.
The people are holding demonstrations, they are sending us e-mails.
This report which I voted against is less concerned with human rights than with 'communitisation' or the consolidation of Fortress Europe.
There is nothing to prevent the spread of unemployment, nothing to protect employees, nothing to prevent the major concerns driving part of the population into poverty simply to make their shareholders richer still!
It is time for action.
We want an Intergovernmental Conference, but not this one.
How could you completely ignore a common - I repeat; common - policy with such an economic, social and regional impact, and which therefore affects the economic and social cohesion of Europe?
I belong to a world, the world of Liberal Catholics, which is not left-wing but which holds as dear as anyone else the values of tolerance and common European values, and will have nothing to do with policies that reject these values.
I agree, absolutely. We shall do so.
In the event that liberalisation is brought about throughout the European Union, what consequences would that have for free competition?
I will restrict myself to these three points in order to bring you up to date with events.
But I want to add a word of caution.
A great deal has been said and numerous policies have been implemented in the Member States.
Both countries also qualify for financial aid under the MEDA programme (B7-4012).
As the author is not present, Question No 32 lapses.
By adopting these amendments, Parliament will allow recourse to OTC derivatives but will also limit the risk to private investors.
We believe that it is not only necessary to read the conclusions of the Helsinki European Council with some care and attention, but that we should also take advantage of the willingness of the Turkish authorities to help to resolve this situation.
Which Commissioners are members of this group?
Can you not exert greater influence over Turkey, so as to enable there to be peaceful developments in this region, and so as to enable Armenians themselves to develop in the way they need to for there to be progress on the cooperation front?
I declare the session of the European Parliament adjourned.
In recent research it is estimated that the industry is worth EUR 800 million per annum and 6 500 jobs rely on its existence.
There is no legal basis, and we feel that this is currently the major obstacle to any intervention in the tourism sector.
I would ask you to support this common position.
We can therefore safely say, for example, that the European Parliament has never allowed the situation in East Timor to be forgotten, which could have been the greatest obstacle to finding an equitable solution for its people, who always opposed occupation by Indonesia.
It is impacting on the war in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and on the situations in Namibia and Zambia. It is now also affecting the situation in Zimbabwe where Robert Mugabe has just lost the referendum precisely because he has sent troops to the Congo to prop up Laurent Kabila who is beyond salvation.
The application of the provisions of the directive concerning the performance of services in the field of investments in securities, better known as ISD, is therefore unnecessary and could lead to difficulties or confusion.
What many Austrians are wondering today is why their democratic decision has suddenly been interpreted as an expression of a fascistic cast of mind, and why the campaign did not begin until the Freedom Party rejected the support of a minority government comprising the SPÖ?
I stated nothing but the truth when I said that the appointment of special envoys was a matter for the Council.
As we see it, such a position constitutes unduly large interference in national fiscal policy and cannot, therefore, be supported.
Dialogue and the coordination of social policy are to be commended, but we should not lump all nations together as if they were the same. There should be room for a multiplicity of solutions.
There is another point I would just like to draw your attention to.
We all took part in it, not just one group.
We do not play at political correctness in this House: we are concerned with fairness at international level and with concrete statements on this issue consistently defined by the Council over a period of time, and which the European Commission has also followed carefully, attentively and pragmatically.
We can only condemn a policy on minorities which is inevitably dangerous for social cohesion.
I would in any case like to congratulate him on his report.
I hope we can meet the challenge which the honourable Member has posed for the Commission and the whole Convention.
The Union is simply doing its job when it seeks through its cooperation policy to encourage nations to espouse a platform of common values with it, of which democracy and civil liberty are the cornerstone.
That means, making a European bugging system like the transatlantic spying operation 'Echelon' perfectly legal.
The travel and tourism sector is the front-runner in making use of ICT tools.
The problem has been overcome.
I therefore believe that this is another step forward we can take and I think it would also be a positive move if consumers and investors could be made aware of a fund' s name so as to be able to learn something about its risk profile.
If we are to rest our position on the human rights dialogue, then we need to be able to convince you, the NGO community and the public at large that it is actually getting somewhere.
I know of the proactive attitude of the European car manufacturing industry which has set up an extensive research programme to outline a national information system for dismantling end-of-life vehicles.
However, this does not blind us to the fact that the majority of resources - 50-80% - will be reserved for cross-border cooperation, for INTERREG IIIA. Therefore, we still think the decision to consolidate the current areas of cooperation in this strand, regarding the selection of eligible regions, is wrong and contradictory.
The decidedly positive developments in the Republic of Macedonia over the past critical years speak for themselves.
Once again there are special areas of policy-making which should be left to the domain of the national Member States.
We all oppose social dumping when perpetrated by fat cat industry, we must also oppose it when perpetrated by governments.
This question is very important and I would like to know - since this is a kind of 'baby fraud' - whether the Commissioner will see to it that these funds are not taken away from the Andalusians, so that the funds which the European Union are going to pay to Andalusia, based on the census, will take into account these 400 000 children which Aznar does not count when it comes to providing them with schools and services.
It remains to be seen whether or not there is a consensus on this.
It is better firstly because the framework proposal made LIFE I more rigorous, more transparent and more rational.
First of all, I think I should repeat some of the basic facts which Mr Florenz and others have already mentioned.
They know full well that they should not commit these acts.
So tomorrow, if we vote against some amendments or against specific paragraphs, this is certainly not on account of their content but rather to render your report as a whole more readable.
My question relates to something that will come up on Thursday and which I will then raise again.
After years of the CFP for the Mediterranean restricting itself to trade regulations and company aid, Regulation 1626 at last introduced a responsible fisheries policy, with measures protecting vulnerable fishery resources in order to ensure sustainable exploitation.
We should be tackling the issue of immigration in a comprehensive and rigorous manner.
The Austrian People' s Party, which I represent here in this Parliament, used to be and still is a party that has consistently spoken up for the integration of my country into the EU and feels deeply attached to the community of values that is the European Union, and likewise its basic political principles of deepening and enlargement.
Madam President, I have talked about the military capacity which we are ready to provide, the timetable which we want to apply and what has been achieved in recent months.
Generally speaking, there are other lessons to be learnt from what is happening in Austria. I have myself suggested various possible responses to this challenge which serves to remind us all once more what we have been doing together since 1957.
It is a difficult subject and I hope we have managed to make it somewhat easier to deal with now.
I was also delighted to hear the report this morning from Commissioner Nielson who has worked untiringly to get the right outcome to the negotiations.
In May 1995, during the preparatory phase of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the CFI, concerned about the persistent increase in the volume of cases, was already insisting on the need to take measures 'without which the Court would soon cease to be able to fully satisfy the principle of the proper administration of justice and to fulfil its assigned role ... in conditions likely to compromise the protection of parties subject to trial.'
For example, it is acknowledged on page 15 of the explanatory statement that "the different levels of development and traditions in the field of social security in the Member States make it impossible to bring about uniform harmonisation of the Member States' social security systems" .
Immigration is too often a synonym for insecurity and violence and purely repressive responses.
Unfortunately, there has been a toning down of the effective ecological material flow policy, i.e. through the obligatory risk assessment of materials whose harmful effect on health has been known for years.
I am also very sympathetic towards Amendment No 9, but I believe that it can be better formulated so as to join, at the same time, environmental concerns and disease control and eradication strategies.
You can think what you like about Mr Haider, and I personally consider him to be a very dangerous politician, but you cannot just intervene in an independent and friendly country' s democratic process.
First let me speak about the economy and social development.
The Commission will have to be very vigorous in the responses that it puts out to some of the comments that it will be receiving as part of the campaign.
If we were to apply the criteria of Articles 6 and 7 or the Copenhagen criteria to the European Union, then, most certainly, this European Union could not become a member, although the countries of Eastern Europe are required to meet them.
The issues involved are extremely important but the systems in the European Union are quite different from one another.
Having said this, I will look at the situation objectively.
The Parliament, the Council presidency and the Commission are pulling in the same direction for a wider agenda.
Most committee members have sought rather to find a balance between, on the one hand, the need to see that both states and businesses comply with the competition rules and, on the other hand, acknowledgement of the value of such aid with a view to contributing to the objectives of the Treaty, particularly, as I have said already, as regards sustainable development, research and development and economic and social cohesion.
The Commission agrees with the rapporteur that combating poverty continues to be the central objective for development policy and will always play a key role.
However, we are aware that we must not delay this third version further, since otherwise we would be jeopardising the success of various projects and the continuity of the projects which are currently underway. The success of INTERREG is clear and that is the opinion of the local, regional and national authorities which have participated in the cofinanced projects.
As for internal reform, you well know how committed my Commission has been to this since day one.
Regarding the first point, we say quite clearly that, in order to take into consideration the requirements of sustainable development which the European Union has endorsed, it is essential that, in some instances, there is state aid to businesses, be it in the form of tax exemptions, special taxation or even direct aid.
(The sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
But as has been pointed out, the adoption of a rigorous definition of the precautionary principle is crucial. This is because it is all very easy to pay lip service to the idea and then to continue with business as usual.
This is not to say that all of our own national systems of justice are perfect, but all too often they may be waiting for a preliminary ruling from the European Court.
By stimulating a diversity of investments, the European Union is endeavouring to increase the GDP per capita and to boost employment.
Madam President, I agree with the fine words with which the rapporteur began his intervention and I must add that, during the conciliation procedure, I was personally a little disappointed with the Council.
It is also legitimate for there to be inter-company agreements and voluntary restraint agreements, since all these agreements make it possible to reduce the detrimental effects of competition on social or ecological requirements.
The medicine may not taste too good in the short term, but opening one' s economy to competition at home and abroad forces optimal application of resources and leads to a higher standard and quality of life in the not so longer term.
Coherence of EU policies with development
The European Union' s structural and cohesion policies are, without doubt, essential tools for creating the right conditions with a view to tackling and reducing the levels of economic and social disparity between the regions.
If there is a choice between investing in innovation projects or injecting most of the funding into bringing on deprived areas, we would opt for the latter as this does the most to benefit equality.
Bear in mind that there are also non-aligned countries at the negotiating table.
We have done everything to help liberalise financial transactions, but so far we have had no working set of rules, as we have learned from the bitter lessons of the repercussions of the Asian and Latin American crises.
You are Spanish; you are from a large country, Mr Solana.
First, while some people question whether tabling a Geneva resolution makes any difference, several of the most distinguished Chinese advocates of democracy strongly believe that it is a valuable move, not least because of the message it sends to people in China itself.
For this reason we need the coordination of all policy areas capable of impacting positively on rural development.
Last November, the Commission tabled a proposal for an anti-racism directive.
Apart from that, I could refer to any customers, any sector, as customers, and thereby have a highly destructive effect on social fields.
When will we see a return to cleanliness and the end of this devastating accident?"
We need somebody who has the ability to detect crime but who also has an enhanced ability to deal with really difficult public order situations as well.
But, more importantly than that, cultural activities are what make mankind civilised.
We should take into consideration the sixth periodic report on the situation of the regions in the European Union, for which the Commission is responsible.
This trio's words were like music to our ears as Mr Ceyhun has said.
The discussions held so far have essentially resulted in two developments. The first is the possibility of opening up a direct information channel between the European Union and the north of the island, without this necessarily signifying recognition of this part of the island as a legal personality at international level, but as a means of facilitating adoption of the acquis communautaire with a view to eventual accession of the whole island, if a solution can, in the meantime, be found to the broader problem of the partition of the island.
SAVE is the only Community-wide programme dedicated to promoting the rational use of energy.
He is absolutely right to say that a Union which talks about conflict prevention should be looking at what it can do in these particular areas to ensure that there is not the sort of conflict in the future which has caused so much devastation in the Balkans and which has cost us a great deal more than we might have had to spend otherwise, had we taken more pre-emptive measures if those had been possible.
We do not hunt down criminals. That is OLAF' s job.
I hope that honourable Members will realise that, regardless of the more or less emotional statements made about issues of this kind, the day-to-day reality of international negotiations normally forces governments to adopt a somewhat more flexible stance - and when I say governments I mean all governments.
We therefore need to be strict in the enlargement process and respect those agreements which - should it be necessary - need to be redrafted with regard to certain fundamental issues such as the environmental disaster that has occurred in Romania, reaching as far as Belgrade, but above all, the continuing spread of apathy as regards major security issues.
The Council approved the agreement negotiated by the Commission despite the fact that a basic section, namely agriculture, had not been finalised.
We have endeavoured to provide material help.
All of this must nevertheless be done whilst respecting a broad framework - that of the overall acceptability of any solutions we may devise to achieve these three aims.
These policy objectives can only be achieved through their careful coordination and organisation on the basis of well thought-out and sensible guidelines.
However, we should not like this important issue to end up entirely in the hands of the Council and we have, therefore, submitted an amendment in which we ask whether an interinstitutional agreement could be reached between the Commission and Parliament in order to ensure that we have a kind of fall-back position and are not placing our fate completely in the hands of the Council.
The proposal for a directive was amended twice, first in 1997 and then in 1998.
The Treaties also point in that direction, although they allow for a more general defence policy which ties in more with the traditional line of thought of incorporating our policy into a European pillar.
Parliamentary support in pursuing that essential course for change will be absolutely vital.
Mr President, the report we are discussing here does not, in itself, entail any major changes.
But the reverse is also the case: a well-developed policy on social security can contribute to high employment and to increased growth.
We are, moreover, convinced that this issue will be one of the priorities of the bilateral relations between the European Union and Turkey in the near future.
This debate is topical, exceptionally important and urgent.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12.00 p.m.
The economic value of the postal service was recognised by the Treaty of Amsterdam and we consider that it goes far beyond the distribution of mail.
These recommendations concerned the need for effective coordination of the Union' s economic policies and the need to overcome the way that economic policy is managed separately from social policy, which has hitherto been a serious barrier to the definition of a coherent strategy for fighting unemployment and moving towards full employment.
How many more Erikas do we have to endure before the powers that be deliver to us a proper port state control that is effective throughout the whole of the European Union, not just certain areas of it?
Deciding upon future policy lines, with a view to a new directive, rather hastily, without having had time to consult the trade unions or have discussions with all the social partners, I feel, runs counter to the spirit we wish to inject into the debate on matters which directly involve the social operators.
They were the first to say that, each day, they must think about doing what is most cost-effective because resources had to suffice for their poor patients there. We must be very careful about how we use resources.
There is State aid for businesses - we have already discussed this, there is still a strong public presence in the economy - it is estimated that the Italian Treasury controls 15% of stock exchange capitalisation; governments and central banks place obstacles in the way of mergers and acquisitions; and there has been much talk in recent weeks about Vodafone' s bid for Mannesmann and the bailout of Holzmann.
In this way, the power of globalisation can be harnessed for the good, to benefit the poor not just the wealthy, the many not just the few.
Now to the implementation of INTERREG, a subject mentioned by many of you, and the potential eligibility under strand A, 'cross-border cooperation' , of schemes in the Adriatic, on behalf of Sicily or for the most remote regions, the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, understands your concerns and takes note of your requests on these various points.
The "zero input" and "zero pollution" requirement, including for substances naturally present in water, is not realistic.
Freedom, security and justice are the root system of any society, reflecting its history, corporate experience and political development.
I do not think that we can accept their procedures.
We must not waiver in that commitment.
Madam President, as my dear friend Elly will know, I will do anything to make her and my Dutch colleagues happy.
So I myself will make sure that this aspect receives due attention.
The Commission is fully aware of the fact that the draft we have before us is not perfect or ideal.
Indeed you responded in kind, as I knew you would do.
A good dose of hypocrisy is needed to overlook our weakness today.
If these changes to the report are supported by the House today, I believe that they will move us forward in the next phase of achieving the historic objectives which the funds were set up to bring about, namely to assist - in a financially sustainable manner - those deprived areas of the European Union which need to be brought up to a decent standard of living, not by giving a hand-out but by giving a "hand-up".
I must emphasise, however, that there are serious constraints.
This sensitivity is reflected in the way in which the Presidency of the Council of the European Union expresses itself in a specific context in relation to particular situations.
We now face an historical challenge with multiple prospects for all the citizens of Europe.
It should be possible for changes to be made to companies and for the latter to be sold and wound up.
A question which has also been discussed in the committee is that of the capital contribution to be required from management companies.
In the last few months in this job I have heard promises that we will do more in Latin America, I have heard promises that if there is a Middle East peace settlement, we will be there to pay for it.
Naturally, every attempt should be made to make European policy more efficient, but this should not lead to unwished-for concentrations of power.
Fourthly, as Parliament ascribes so much value to LIFE, it has allocated ever-greater appropriations to this project in its annual budget.
Even if we have new Rules of Procedure in Parliament, and it may well be that, with such an ambitious chairman in the Committee on Agriculture, problems of legislative competence will arise more and more frequently between the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment, one thing is always crystal clear for me in this sort of conflict: cohesion in this Parliament is crucial and the legal basis of a question is crucial as far as I am concerned.
LEADER I applied to the rural areas covered by Structural Fund Objectives 1 and 5b, and 217 local action groups participated in it, with financing of EUR 1 155 million.
Of course, we felt the need to simplify and consolidate the previous programmes, but everyone hoped that the Culture programme could help to promote, for example, the unique features of each cultural sector, even - and I could say especially - of the unique features of less well-known sectors.
In addition, measures must be taken to combat differences on the grounds of gender.
At some time or another, there will be a revolt, and it will be fully justified.
Here, a region has, by its own efforts, created a means of marketing its own products.
In fact, according to the experts, the oil the Erika was carrying was supposed to sink to the bottom and should never have reached the coast.
How is this to be done when, at the same time, the Commission' s proposal - which has been leaked, so the general public is aware of it - says that employees' freedom of thought comes before transparency and that it is not possible to have access to working documents, reports, drafts etc?
It is not firm commitments that we need, just plain commitments would suffice, and we need to know what has actually been paid and, more especially, what has not been paid.
So I hope I can count on the understanding of the House on this occasion.
I have three short questions, the first being as follows.
So we are watching that entire point extremely carefully.
A contract that, for example, pays a substantial sum if, say, the NASDAQ or the CAC 40 share index falls, causes an extra payment by the investor if the NASDAQ or the CAC 40 share index rises.
Mr President, the INTERREG programme is particularly close to our hearts.
In the event there is absolutely no serious and persistent breach in Austria.
I would propose that Amendment No 92 should be incorporated into a broader solution.
It is not just that we should pillory state aid; rather our approach must be one of drawing distinctions and we must assess the different types of state aid in accordance with the extent to which they help to achieve the above-mentioned objectives.
For this reason it may be necessary, as I have stressed, to change the model and move away from the post-colonial model towards a more European approach to development policies.
And it is still on the agenda today.
We pray that these are the last victims in a process which, as you said, Madam President, has seen much barbarism. We pray that a way forward can be found which will allow the Basque people to live together in peace.
I have heard many comments on the Commission' s opinion, which mentioned all these subjects and dealt with many of them in depth, with specific indications of new draft articles, but no one has said that we were going beyond the Helsinki mandate.
A technical improvement in the flexibility system will not be enough: we also have to raise the issue of developing our institutions for the countries in the vanguard as proposed by Jacques Delors, for example.
This is why I shall support this report, despite regretting the fact that, for timetabling reasons, the European Parliament was only consulted at a very late date on the guidelines intended to assist Member States, regions and local communities in the programming of Objectives 1, 2 and 3.
Mr President, quite a few towns and cities within the European Union have to contend with deprivation.
We can learn from the successes mentioned, not only by looking at the actual numbers of women that were elected, but the effect that has had on the nature of government to illustrate that everyone benefits from a truly representative system.
We know what actually happened.
Competition is not an end in itself, as Mr Rapkay rightly pointed out, but it plays an extremely important role in European integration.
We now await, therefore, with great interest, ladies and gentlemen of the House, your next opinion, in which you will specify Parliament' s priorities and practical proposals for these negotiations.
We are accomplices in the massacres in Chechnya if we continue to give money to the butchers.
My vote was "in favour" .
On the provision of regional aid referred to in the report we agree that our technical and financial assistance should go in part to projects having a cross-border or regional dimension.
Madam President, all that I wanted to say has been covered by those fellow Members who spoke before me and I think there is unanimity among the groups in the European Parliament and among those of us on the Committee on Culture.
Between EUR 1 500 and 2 000 billion are traded every day on the financial markets. In three or four days, this can equal the total figure of annual global production, or global GDP, of approximately EUR 6 000 billion.
The recent decisions on the cod quota for the Irish Sea is yet another hard blow which could well prove to be a mortal blow to the Northern Ireland fishing industry.
Lastly, I would like to insist that, although we have agreed to EUR 35 million now, we know that this is a stopgap solution and that it is not enough, and we should therefore reach an agreement as soon as possible on the multiannual reconstruction programme for Kosovo, which is so badly needed.
Similarly, despite the indication the day before yesterday that the timetable for the Framework Agreement on permanent status has been pushed beyond the mid-February deadline, I very much hope that the much more important September deadline for the final agreement on permanent status will be reached.
It certainly influenced the debate on the moratorium on the death penalty.
We should pay particular attention to telluric pollution, to development, to the urbanisation of coastal areas, etc. But we should also think about restoring the environment and, for example, solving the problems associated with caulerpa taxifolia, and the areas of posidonia that are disappearing and which must therefore be protected.
Subsidies are not enough to ensure development when infrastructure and public services are lacking.
We should remember that the most disadvantaged include immigrants and refugees.
The Commission sincerely hopes that the European Parliament will support its efforts to make progress in these important fields.
Report (A5-0010/2000) by Mrs Ahern, on behalf of the European Parliament delegation to the Conciliation Committee, on the joint text approved by the Conciliation Committee for a European and Council decision adopting a multiannual programme for the promotion of energy efficiency - SAVE (C5-0334/1999 - 1997/0371(COD))
But we make no bones about the fact that we shall vote against the text as a whole.
There should be no falling-off in the percentages concerned or in the requirements for recycling vehicles from particular years, and it is important to limit the use of dangerous substances such as lead.
There are certainly no restrictions in its scope.
Turning to the main themes of the resolution I offer the following observations.
The Commission has therefore adopted the strategic programme for 2000-2005, a programme that was immediately sent to the European Parliament and with which you are already familiar, so I will not go into detail about it now.
By staunchly and speedily denouncing the participation of Jörg Haider' s xenophobic and anti-European party in the Austrian government, a situation without precedent since the second world war, the European Union has come into its political birthright and has confirmed that it is not merely an economic and financial Community, a large market, a "Europe of shopkeepers" .
The debate is closed.
This is why it is so important that the European Parliament declares itself openly in favour of the OSPAR objective of close-to-zero by the year 2020.
In accordance with new provisions included in the Amsterdam Treaty all the 370 million consumers within the European Union have a right to consumer-related information.
Commissioner Kinnock will, tomorrow, present his communication on reform.
That is true as long as account is taken of the 20 per cent of the total postal services market where, in practice, there is still a monopoly, that is where the state is the only player.
The European Union needs few, if any, new instruments, and it does not need any new competences.
More importantly, we need a family policy to promote demographic growth and an economic, monetary and fiscal policy to promote growth and reconquer the internal market so that we can create jobs.
This exists, but it is only a small part of what we are discussing.
The amendment to the directive is consequently in full accordance with the principle of subsidiarity; the Member States obtain more powers.
We propose a procedure like the Luxembourg process.
Unfortunately, developments are not moving in that direction.
I would ask you to support that part of the available budget should be concentrated on the development of knowledge amongst European young farmers.
Rezala should never have been in France. He arrived from Algeria at a time when, according to the authorities, immigration had been stopped and there was no reason for him to come.
However, we consider that the present is the basis of the future and we shall only be able to shape the future if we prove our worth in the present.
The Commission is correct in stating that the Union intends to develop and safeguard the welfare state in an age of globalisation.
The strategic paper emphasises the global role of the European Union.
Mr President, the present draft resolution is controversial. Given the topic it covers, this is hardly surprising.
Youth, education and cultural policies are important tools for creating these values, for giving the citizens confidence in the European Union and making it credible in their eyes.
In the context of pre-accession aid to the region it may be possible to redirect some of the assistance we are giving under ISPAR and PHARE to tackle the most severe impact of this accident, as long as the polluter-pays principle is fully respected.
How can we stop similar disasters occurring in future if we do not institute draconian measures against the major oil corporations, and indeed many others who, in order to make more profit, take the risk of making the world uninhabitable?
So what is the European Union doing about it?
Clear guidelines and indicators are required. At the same time, the Member States are to formulate the relevant methods in national action plans.
Given that the complexity of the procedures has been greatly reduced, I voted in favour not only because this measure addresses the need for cohesion between these applicant States and the Union, but also because I believe that this should be taken as an invitation from Parliament to the Council and the Commission to ensure that Cyprus and Malta become fully-fledged members of the European Union as swiftly as possible.
They have suffered enough, first under the Soviet yoke and then from the high price they paid for being forced to become part of the communist bloc.
Mr President, Mr Fischler, my report concerns the vital integration of environmental and fisheries issues, as discussed at the ministerial meeting in Bergen.
I can think of many mountain regions which are continually spoilt in order to develop a tourist sector.
The proposal must also include more stringent criteria for establishing lesser environmental objectives and for extending deadlines in connection with heavily modified or artificial bodies of water.
This draft convention therefore aims to complete and facilitate the application, at Member State level, of pre-existing conventions on other legal areas. The intention is to improve judicial cooperation in criminal matters through rapid and effective legal assistance while still fully respecting the fundamental rights of the defence and the general principles of human rights enshrined in the national law of the Member States and in the European Convention on Human Rights.
I can assure you that this is an issue which the Portuguese Presidency will keep before the Member States and the representatives of the preparatory group for the conference.
Madam President, on behalf of the Union for a Europe of Nations Group, I would like to express our sorrow for the victims and our rejection of terrorism and those who defend it.
By recommending the introduction of a method of containment and gradual culling, similar to the system used successfully in Norway, the rapporteur seeks to introduce a more flexible approach to the disease which will provide confidence, not least to the insurance sector who have hitherto shied clear of providing any form of cover due to the insistence on a policy of compulsory slaughter.
There is one basic lesson I would like us to learn from this.
This is exactly what happened in the case of transport of such goods by rail, except for the fact that a time limit had been decided.
A Council regulation that is directly applicable law must also be observed by the regional governments.
We rightfully condemned the behaviour of UNITA which threatened the peace process in Angola and we used our authority to invite the two sides to stop the war and embrace peace. Rightfully and with the full weight of our authority, we condemn the persecution and threats against journalists and we call on the Government of Angola to ensure the conditions of freedom which are essential to the vital work of journalists in a democratic country and society.
We think they should.
I would not presume to be able to summarise the content of our proposal better than he has done; I would just like to add one small point: in addition to adaptation to ESA 95, there are two small technical changes which Mr Knörr knows all about, relating to interest and the valuation of debt in foreign currency.
Thanks to the agreement, it is possible to create a chain of legal assistance requests, whereby each link represents authorities and criminal law systems of different Member States.
Again, that will be a very demanding challenge.
Certainly the Commission will seek good coordination with national employment policies.
Resumption of the session
The emphasis should have been placed on the rejection of any policy of handouts and instead on the development of initiative and responsibility.
Mr Verheugen has the floor on behalf of the Commission.
With regard to the dialogue with our citizens, it is not a question of propaganda or marketing, nor even of communication.
This is a big task but it can be done.
It has been seen as a bureaucratic process to be done as quickly as possible in as little time as possible.
As regards the participation of the European Parliament in the conference proceedings, I think that Mr Seixas da Costa will agree with me, on the basis of our shared experience, in saying that you would be wrong to disregard the level of the reflection and negotiating group in which your two representatives, Professor Tsatsos and Mr Brok, are going to be working.
The fisheries policy is due for review in a few months' time, i.e. at the beginning of the year 2000.
I have just heard now that an audit progress board is going to be set up by the Commission.
It is essential to establish a single European system, but one based on fairness, full respect for the Geneva Convention and decent reception conditions, including an end to routine detention.
First of all, from 1986 to 1989, I was an overseas development minister and I formed a particular attachment to the people of Mozambique.
This would show respect for these peripheral areas which are rather concerned about enlargement to the east.
Finally, I would like to ask the Commission to send the document I referred to to the European Parliament as soon as possible, so that we can help think of possible solutions in a constructive way.
Do not continue in this vein!
I wish the Commission well in its task of producing that basic document.
The appeal by the European Socialists, on the initiative of Olivier Duhamel, raised awareness and enabled there to be a firm and immediate political response to this unheard of and intolerable situation.
We have achieved an acceptable compromise solution on this, or so we believe, which I welcome.
And yet we still have these problems in Wales and in Scotland.
We could then, theoretically, also support the Commission' s call for a management unit for structural assistance in the Member States, with the task of coordinating the implementation and administration of structural assistance there,provided that this unit does not become a centralising instrument at supranational level, but guarantees real help for those zones - and I stress this once again - which, owing to a whole string of converging negative factors, have not yet harnessed Structural Funds to sufficient levels, with the result that replacing the geographical objective with policy areas could, in fact, amount to a negative intervention.
They are a safe product, traded cross-border.
Madam President, I would like to make a few comments.
Thank you very much, Mr Patten, for your interventions today.
The opinion of Mr Sánchez García, addressed to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, contained a remark regarding the IGC.
Well, the Syrians are quite possibly cutting off their nose to spite their face.
Europe should regularise the situation of all its illegal immigrants and grant them right of asylum and the right to vote in all elections. Only then can we talk in this House about an area of freedom and justice.
The time has come to implement the programmes, and so Member States should also assume their responsibilities and do their jobs properly.
Therefore, the EU must also have an independent, credible conflict-prevention capacity.
She knows me well enough to understand that at all stages in the five years in which we worked together in this House, there has never been a single occasion on which I have refused to account in full, formally and in detail for everything I have done.
In the territory of Member States of the European Union, applicant countries or Member States of EFTA, there may be interrelations between the various Community initiatives.
From what I have said, it must be obvious to you that the European Parliament is not prepared to simply play the role of observer.
This communication must contain a clear timetable.
Mr President, 1999 was the year of the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, of the communitisation of the Schengen Agreement and of the Extraordinary Tampere Council.
We are debating nothing less than the presence in a Member State' s government of a political force whose doctrine and principles are incompatible with the conceptual and moral bases of the Union enshrined in its founding Treaties.
It indicates, however, that we acknowledge that steps are being made in the right direction.
We are to receive all the draft implementing measures forwarded to a committee at the same time as it is sent to the committee.
We must monitor compliance with environmental standards, employment standards, in order to prevent dumping in this area, and we must ensure scrupulous respect for property rights and the revision of state aid, which in many industries - as has already been said - distorts competition and destroys jobs within our own territory. To sum up, we should apply similar conditions that will prevent aid, internal distortions by other countries, from being transferred to the international arena, in other words, through trickery.
Each of them will be available for reflection and response by this House.
This seems to be a good thing and useful.
Mr President, most of the time, the European Parliament, spearheaded by environment committees, does its very best to make a critical assessment of the proposals submitted by the European Commission or the Council, so as to improve on them from an environmental point of view.
He has been clear that his commitment has been to produce a radical change.
Subject: Indictment of NATO before War Crimes Tribunal Human rights organisations, such as the US Human Rights Watch, have already collected significant evidence of NATO crimes in connection with the bombing of Kosovo and Serbia with a view to bringing a case before the War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague.
The next item is the report (A5-0021/2000) by Mrs Frassoni, on behalf of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the agreement between the European Parliament and the Commission on the implementation of the new Council decision of 28 June 1999 on comitology (1999/468/EC).
Mr President, it is difficult to summarise the areas covered by such a large and complex directive.
We believe that Helsinki was very clear in this respect.
As far as I am concerned, EMU cooperation looms ponderously large as a colossus which will have difficulty keeping afloat in the present swelling economy.
The Portuguese Presidency has agreed to initiate deliberations on this matter, perhaps to extend the mandate.
If there is more symbolism than reality in what we can achieve at Community level, this is a pity because there is a lot of enthusiasm at local level for action, including Community actions, on energy saving.
Mr President, the launch of the euro could well be a heaven-sent opportunity for counterfeiters.
Madam President, I do not have a great deal to add on this subject.
I shall therefore, with your permission, give the floor to Mrs Banotti to reply to you under the procedural motion.
Madam President, Mr Prodi, Europe needs a strong Commission.
. Mr President, I have no desire to enter into the realms of philosophy.
In other words, there will have to be a quantum leap in development policy if the rich countries, including the EU countries, are not to surround themselves with barriers to prevent immigration on a massive scale.
Some countries - such as France and Spain - managed to meet the challenge, giving rise to great nation States; other countries - such as Italy - did not meet this challenge and lost all the headway that they had accumulated during the first part of that millennium: headway in science, technology, economic progress, defence structures and military organisation, philosophy and literature.
When we hold intergovernmental conferences and consider changes to the Treaty, we must take into account the fact that the EU is developing all the time, sometimes in contravention of the Treaty, as we have just seen.
Stabilisation and association agreement with FYROM
The Commission welcomes many of the clarifications proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs with open arms and will adopt a large number of its ideas.
I hope that the other countries of the region will redouble their efforts to make similar progress.
Given this context, I would like to tell you about something that happened a few days ago.
Our definitions are still too vague and new technologies now make it essential for us to clarify them.
Even in Tampere, we were of the opinion that Eurodac was becoming a reality.
The Council was fully aware of issues of this kind and of the need to take additional measures in this field.
We are very sceptical about your current plans to form a military capability in the short term. This is not because we are against European defence, but European defence can and may only be the outcome of a sound, democratically-based decision process in respect of foreign affairs.
He has also said that the countries in the vanguard of integration should be able to proceed faster and that they should have their own institutions, for the sake of clarity.
Mr President, everyone agrees with the obvious environmental and industrial importance of the instrument in question.
So what should be our attitude towards a Geneva resolution this year?
With regard to the future, the Council noted that work within the Commission should shortly lead to the publication of a communication on the safety of oil tankers and of new proposals to strengthen controls, together with provisions on the qualifications of inspecting agencies.
My group is fully intent on helping with this work.
Women devote their entire lives to the endeavour to protect life and the environment through dialogue, reconciliation, an understanding of different views and resolving differences by peaceful means.
After almost forty years of being in force, these rules were beginning to show signs of exhaustion. For this reason, modernisation was essential.
The legislature has a duty to contain the risk inherent in the continuing deregulation of the European financial markets.
These recommendations, which, for the most part, are consistent with the guidelines in the Portuguese presidency' s work programme and which will therefore be discussed at the Lisbon Summit, have been rejected or distorted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs of this Parliament, by a majority which only managed to achieve a fragile unity in its rejection of the idea of a European Union which is founded on the convergence of national policies and not just on the grouping together of markets.
On the other hand, I am not convinced that making the process more efficient in this way requires common European legislation or centralisation of the fight against crime.
According to the Treaty, one of the founding principles of this Community is linguistic and cultural plurality and there is no question of our overlooking the possibility of something as important as being able to read a judgement in our own language.
Mr President, the Katiforis report has been amended according to the proposals, notably, of the Europe for a Union of Nations Group, which were adopted in the Committee on Fisheries and, in my opinion, this version is an improvement on the original.
We are aware of the fact that the price of water and water services is a complicated issue and that account must be taken not only of environmental goals but also of social and economic goals.
Mr President, on behalf of the Italian Radical Members, I abstained on this text in the Committee on Budgetary Control, because I share the concerns that have been voiced, in such an authoritative way, by the representative of another legal culture which is certainly important: common law.
Fernando Buesa also said the following, which everyone in Ireland has probably thought. 'If we are killing each other for no reason - and this was happening in Ireland because there were paramilitary groups on all sides - we should be resolutely asking ourselves this question in the Basque Country too.
The terms of the regulations to be enforced must be particularly clear and strict.
The Commission has given its commitment to this task and the draft for the overall package of internal reforms documents this.
We will soon see, and for our part, we will bear in mind any suggestions on this issue.
A second point which I would like to comment on is the remaining information which may be of importance to Parliament with regard to the provision of macroeconomic assistance.
This is why we are redefining all our work priorities.
To that end, we must also make it our business to take more account of demand-orientated economic policy as opposed to one focusing heavily on supply.
The handover will have been made, but the conditions in which the handover is going to be made, by yourself, Mr President, and by the Portuguese Presidency, are going to be extremely important, as is the nature of this handover.
It creates international legal protection in connection with distribution, sale, rental, public reproduction and the making available of works.
On the other hand, for the sake of simplifying procedures some highly debatable amendments have been included in the Berger report, one example of which is the establishment of a common information service for cards issued by a body in any Member State.
And at the level of the European Union, the question of whether the 15 Member States need to be represented on every committee will never be asked.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now come to the end of a long road.
But we should not kid ourselves: a comprehensive Middle East peace deal comes with a hefty price tag.
I think, therefore, that paragraph 7 contains something very central, i.e. that EQUAL will be used as a testing ground for developing and promoting new ways of delivering employment policies.
What we are proposing is that it should not just be a case of having to apply for the EU service provision card for all Member States, rather one should also have the option of applying for it for individual Member States.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
Some of the data is also irrelevant such as that referring to the taxation of enterprises.
Therefore, and I must address this comment to you Mr Byrne, I reject your choice of legal basis.
They want answers.
Time after time development policy is forgotten or is an afterthought when the major policies of this European Union are considered.
Can Commissioner Patten update us on the international coordination so far?
Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Patten very much for the awareness he has demonstrated of the difficulties inherent in the peace process and the challenge that the European Union is taking on to bring it to completion.
One example of this slow progress is the way the Commission is proceeding.
I myself had an opportunity to meet this group, for the first time, in parallel with the January part-session, and I am trying to arrange to do so again soon in order to continue these discussions.
Any future reforms of the European Union treaties will require a referendum to be held in my country.
But it is precisely the regions on borders with third countries which need an operational instrument to foster cross-border cooperation.
Mr President, before we start the debate on Kosovo or Mitrovica, I must inform you that a nasty sense of unease has come over me.
The issue of UCITS may appear difficult, technical and a political minefield.
Changes in the climate and minor rises in temperature have a direct impact on precipitation.
In the months I have been Commissioner and observed the way legislation goes through the system, I can see that much work needs to be done on this issue so that we can all achieve what we seek to achieve, that is, the translation of policy into legislation.
Basically, these proposals introduce the EU service provision card which will in future enable almost 5 million third country nationals legally resident in a European Union Member State to provide services in other Member States, a phenomenon currently obstructed by problems such as the need to obtain visas and work permits.
But the Commission is now proposing that training should no longer be included.
Since the Treaty entered into force, Community law on competition has been one of the tenets of Community policy.
We hope that the legal points of view will also be accorded the importance which is only reasonable in a state based on the rule of law.
1999 was also marked by the German Presidency' s initiative to draw up a European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
This compulsory examination was to be carried out in line with accusations submitted.
It is self-perpetuating in a world of ever higher bids which constantly denies the humanity of man, the rich as much as the poor. Yet it is the latter who, at the end of the day, are excluded from the majority of the world' s decision-making centres for these are monopolised by a tiny minority referred to recently, and very aptly, by Jean-Pierre Chevènement as the globalised élites.
Firstly, we think that the time-frame for implementing the proposed measures should be shorter than that proposed by the Council.
Mr President, the European Parliament has a crucial role to play in the development of the Water Directive.
The recent dioxin scare in Belgium, prior to that the BSE crisis in Britain, and the continuing controversy over the safety of genetically-modified foods, have all contributed to undermining consumer confidence in the safety of the food they eat.
I would like to answer these two questions as follows.
This is something that people are very worried about and quite rightly so: I myself share these concerns.
This is an admission that confirms all our concerns and makes Parliament' s position on the case all the more appropriate, as it calls for a concurrent explanation of other cases of journalists who have disappeared in the Chechen region during the conflict and the safeguarding of media coverage of a conflict that has reached unacceptable levels of violence.
Therefore, if you wish, as soon as I have this information by sector and region, I will personally send you the information on Andalusia.
Health facilities and staff of NGOs need to be supported and resourced to deal effectively and appropriately with patients.
That could convince people that Europe, in its governance, is not something run exclusively from Brussels, which concentrates and soaks up more powers, more decisions, more authority.
This is only the beginning of a great project in the field of law, which should advance hand in hand with the growth the type of Europe we want to see.
This is why I propose splitting the costs between the first holder and the manufacturer.
This debate on the van Hulten report brings to a close one of the most traumatic periods for the European institutions since their creation in 1957.
There must be rules governing existing vehicles too.
It is intolerable that the EU should involve itself in the formation of the government in a Member State.
This proposal will remove the current budget line B2-5122 and create a new budget heading B1-382.
This is why in the debate on the framework directive on water policy, the European Parliament has since the first reading demanded coherence between the framework directive and the international objectives, particularly with regard to respect for OSPAR. This convergence must be effective and specific and must commit us to action.
The second recommendation relates to criminal proceedings.
We will use all the means available to permanently strengthen the community of values which we have been building together since the founding of the Union in 1957, and even before that, on the rubble of the Second World War.
You have requested a debate on this subject in the course of the next few days, during this part-session.
All other questions ought to be dealt with at local, regional or national levels.
The results are certainly not what we expected.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel, I can tell you that this matter is on the agenda for the Quaestors' meeting on Wednesday.
The key questions now are who pays the EUR 262 per car for the 9 million cars that are disposed of each year?
I would like to know whether you are going to stop completely the funding at this stage until there is a proper investigation.
So I refer to the things I do not agree with.
.
I appreciate your courage because I think that it is high time that we in the European institutions started to offer concrete instruments to help put more women on the political agenda.
I hope that the accession money available to assist Cyprus is used partly to promote that reconciliation and rebuilding of trust and that both sides of the divided communities in Cyprus accept and use that money in the spirit in which it is given.
In three weeks' time, I shall be in Paris, and I shall continue this dialogue in one capital after another.
I feel that the criticism made of the previous presidency is not appropriate.
It is true in regard to guaranteeing the free movement of labour without loss of social entitlements. It applies to the fact of our having to coordinate our economies; and it applies in the case of economic cooperation.
I believe that it is both proper and fitting to set up a centre for monitoring this coherence between Community policies and development and cooperation policy, and that this monitoring centre' s sphere of activity should not be limited just to Community policies, but should also cover Member States' actions and policies, including the actions of economic groups, which I think are also important.
It is up to the European Parliament to protect vulnerable people.
Not a euro more or a euro less.
This would, furthermore, make it possible to allow firms time to make funds available to meet these additional expenses.
Madam President, my apologies, I was looking at Amendment No 36, which logically precedes Amendment No 37.
Commissioner, Mr Solana, there is no doubt that you are acting quickly and forcefully and that you have made great progress in certain areas.
And when that assessment is complete, we will be able to establish whether the resources at our disposal are commensurate with the tasks attributed to us.
The question of flags of convenience must be reviewed within the IMO.
Mr Solana has confirmed our view that, in a militarised European Union, NATO will have the upper hand.
Mr MacCormick, the Commission has no plans to amend the rules concerning additionality which were stipulated, for the 2000-2006 period, in Article 11 of the general Regulation on the Funds.
A radical policy to promote security and justice in each country is the best guarantee of democratic development in Europe.
In addition, investors often have better protection with an actively-managed fund.
It should prevent society from splintering.
However, it is difficult to predict what the content of this charter will be and how it will be implemented legally when you think of the people who are not currently citizens of the Union.
Mr President, in this important debate on competition, I am speaking this morning with particular reference to Mr Langen' s document on the Steel Aid Code.
We are charged with particular responsibility for the promotion of regional economic development.
I should like to broach some of the points the Commissioner mentioned, notably the question of financial resources.
At the time of the reform of the Structural Funds in 1994 and 1996, the INTERREG CIP has incorporated new strands contributing to the development of trans-European transport and energy distribution networks.
(FR) The European Union is flaunting its unbridled expansionist ambitions.
If we had to give a prize for the article which was most difficult to understand, least clear and most confused - however you like to put it - the competition would be very hard fought. The Treaty is a collection of complex articles.
We want more than that, however.
I wonder what kind of mediaeval bureaucracy is at work here preventing a Dutch channel from being transmitted by satellite.
Lastly, we need to ensure that there is proper, genuine reform of the European Commission.
The second aspect that we need to consider, in relation to the coherence of policies, is development policy in the context of the Union' s foreign policy.
Of course it is, but there is no reason why Europe cannot equip itself with the means to intervene when prevention proves unsuccessful.
Mr President, Commissioner, I am not going to join in the unanimous chorus from my fellow Members.
These violent scenes at El Ejido are so similar to archive pictures of Alabama in the 1950s, when the KKK terrified the black population, that it is hard to tell them apart. They also put us in mind of Germany in the 1930s, when the Nazis were persecuting the Jews.
The third observation is that as regards the four issues on which the specific statement focuses, which relate to paid work, the sustainability of pension systems, social convergence and lastly quality in health care, there is a horizontal approach to the issue of women because in each of these categories - as the speakers said - there are special problems relating to women and those problems should in many cases be addressed by separate policies.
The preparations the Commission has made so far are on the right track, although they do not go far enough if the European Parliament' s motions are anything to go by.
The people who have participated in this initiative have learnt the importance of learning together, of innovation, of sharing projects and good practices and of understanding and tolerating each other.
Eurosceptics claim that this is a threat to sovereignty, the end of the nation-state, and so on. But the case of the suspect wanted for questioning in connection with the murders of three women in France, including British student, Isabel Peake, who was thrown off a train, shows why we need mutual recognition.
A word on the White Paper: the revision of Articles 81 and 82 represents a change of direction in monopolies policy.
Perhaps they are in lovely villas by lovely beaches, getting a nice tan.
(FR) Mr President, we have already had the opportunity, at the first reading, to examine this report and I was given to believe in committee that there was a broad consensus within this House.
I. the draft Council decision amending Decision 88/591/ECSC, EEC, Euratom establishing a Court of First Instance of the European Communities (5713/1999 - C5-0020/1999 - 1999/0803(CNS))
This seems to be the pattern of events that has emerged after the use of depleted uranium weapons in the Gulf war.
Mr President, Commissioner, if we are honest, we find ourselves in a somewhat unusual situation.
I welcome Mr Amadeus' statement this morning, which acknowledged the difficulties of non-budgetisation of the EDF, which called for a more active role for the Development Council and which called for development priorities to be central to the EU' s emerging common foreign and security policy.
It is therefore important that regulation of derivatives is flexible so that the market is not tied down ahead of future developments.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, to my mind, it cannot be said often or loud enough that what the Council has adopted in the way of an agenda for the Intergovernmental Conference is completely unacceptable politically and I would add that I consider it to be nothing short of disgraceful.
A 25-year roll-out for legislation, for example, is hardly acceptable.
It should be stressed that the Amendment does not in any way require the Commission to include the collection of such data either under the minimum or the extended programmes it establishes.
We are not, fortunately, at this point.
The Commission is giving up its monopoly on exemptions.
Subject: Depleted uranium weapons Has the Commission conducted any studies of the potential effects upon EU states of transboundary pollution arising from the use of depleted uranium weapons in the Kosovan conflict?
My second point is that we must make rapid progress in the adoption of a common asylum system, adopting common procedural rules and, above all, putting an end to the current confusion between migration for political reasons and migration for economic reasons.
I can send the honourable Member, if he would like, a detailed breakdown of exactly where we stand on the negotiation of partnership and cooperation agreements with each of the Central Asian republics.
Any aspect of this which may impinge on the Commission' s right of initiative will obviously have to be done through the Commission itself.
In honour of the tremendous work he carried out over a difficult period the Joint Bureau in Nassau made him an honorary president, and we wish him well in his retirement.
I should, however, like to add that it only makes sense if we ensure that the new TSE regulation allows a reasonable symbiosis between consumer protection and practicable suggestions.
In the field of European Union legislation on combating financial crime, the Commission presented a proposal for an amended directive on money laundering.
I completely reject that simply because of the standards of Commission officials, the responsibility of directors-general and the assurances that we have built into the system.
We know from media reports that bombs and weapons were dumped just off the coast.
But the lack of specific guidelines here is particularly to be regretted, as the idea of linking Social Fund assistance to the employment strategy will be put into effect for the first time during the 2000-2006 programme.
That, however, is not my question.
Quite, we agree absolutely.
It would need to revise its negative attitude towards the big infrastructure programmes of trans-European networks, which have been gathering dust in the drawers for rather too long, to allow them to be financed on an adequate scale by means of European Community bonds and to accept an interpretation of the concept of budget deficits which would allow governments to borrow for purposes of investment without falling foul of the restrictions of the stability pact.
I note that Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market also accepts that Article 37 is the appropriate legal base.
It would be politically astute not to isolate the ÖVP but to support it as an undeniably democratic, constitutional and well-known European party, so as to be equally certain that Austria will continue to be a Member of this European Community, and that is why we must give the ÖVP our support in this difficult situation, and isolation would be altogether the wrong line to take!
To conclude, I would like to tell you what I am expecting from this reform: fair competition and equal competition conditions, legal certainty for all enterprises, consistent application of competition policy, procedural simplification according to the principle of the one-stop-shop, coordination of the national - and to me, independent - competition authorities, close cooperation between the national authorities and courts and the Commission, along with a clear distribution of competences between national authorities and courts in the application of European competition and monopolies law, and I expect the Commission to concentrate on what is most crucial in the fulfilment of its tasks as the supreme guardian of the European competition policies.
I would like to mention two substances from the Commission' s list: mercury and tributyl, abbreviated to TBT.
The Socialists, like the Commission, question the advisability of allowing investment funds to invest in so-called over-the-counter derivatives, i.e. products negotiated between professionals by private contract.
For example, the work of the EU unit located in Dublin has shown that physical distance is no barrier these days to communication and having an effective influence on matters.
So people are doubtful about the safety of ships which carry dangerous or polluting goods.
Thirdly, what assessment would you make of the 'Crisex 2000' exercises which have just ended in which, for the first time, the European Union took part in a series of initiatives with the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation?
My second point has already been mentioned: it concerns the minimum standards.
We also believe in the principle of subsidiarity whereby decisions are to be taken as close as possible to those they affect.
The Lisbon Summit to be held at the end of this month is very much geared towards women.
I would merely say that the festive issue which Mr Dimitrakopoulos has raised is an extremely important one.
We have dealt with other subjects and we have mentioned our idea that other subjects may be dealt with in this conference, if the Portuguese Presidency firstly, and then the French Presidency, so wish, in view of the serious nature of the present juncture prior to enlargement.
There is, however, one thing we should not overlook.
I cannot shake off the impression that, when it comes to human rights, despite all the rhetoric, Africa does not feature on top of the agenda of the Portuguese Presidency. This is something which I very much regret.
I - and I believe many with me in Parliament - would like you to be the driving force behind them and would not want you to run the risk of being sidelined to some extent.
They should be able to do so without compromising their equal opportunities and equal treatment.
Now people have said here that Norway has done a better job of controlling the epidemic of ISA and that the proposed change will bring us more in line with the Norwegian approach, but it must be said that there is more than just one difference between the Norwegian policy and that of the Community.
In the next couple of years, we will need to think about the possibility of replacing structural funds by an equalisation fund which is limited to budgetary aid for Member States or their constituent regions with a low income per capita of the population.
Regardless of the many other concerns we may have, BSE has given us a terrible legacy that has to be dealt with and resolved.
Personally, I am rather in favour of the term "EU service provision card" which is proposed in Amendment No 1, but the Treaty of Amsterdam does not allow this.
Unfortunately not all, but many of them travel the world to see its marvels and to discover and learn more about it: Italians want to see what the English are like, the Greeks want to see what the Turks are like and the French want to see their Italian cousins.
Not only is there very little substance but this is also a rather old document dating from 28 April 1999 which therefore makes it nearly a year old.
Mr President, Commissioner, Andalusia is one of the most tolerant and multiracial regions of the European Union.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as part of the reform of the Structural Funds the Community initiatives are being pruned to a total of four.
It is as if the Council had more than one face and two hands and what one signs up to, the other begrudges.
Ambition will be needed, given the mammoth task which awaits us.
The lack of clarity of language is inevitably going to lead to legal uncertainty.
We are always saying think globally, act locally.
The challenge now is to have the courage to devolve as many non-core tasks as possible back to lower levels of national, regional and local government.
Mr President, there are days when I really cannot understand this Parliament. It seems to take a masochistic pleasure in self-mutilation.
It contrasts Prime Minister Barak' s personal peace efforts and the distant attitude, even physical absence, of the strong man of Damascus, President Assad, at the negotiations in the United States.
As with all other Community initiatives, this is very positive.
Last but not least the pay and benefits package must be reviewed.
We need to stop people passing the buck from one to another.
In light of what I have said, I ask Parliament to approve the opinion which Mr Leinen and I have put before you, so that on 14 February, the work of the Intergovernmental Conference can begin and our two representatives, Mr Brok and Mr Tsatsos, can proceed with the difficult task that awaits them with the European Parliament' s backing.
I am in favour of a hardline policy against Austria, but we shall then have a responsibility towards Russia.
It is clear that this model' s logic of private profit has been harmful, and therefore the 'polluter pays' principle is a suitable way of dealing with these consequences.
But, Madam President, my personal request has not been met.
You have not integrated environmental policy into enlargement, despite the fact that it will be one of the fundamental problems of enlargement.
Against this background, I want to conclude with a remarkable story from Sweden where an international Intergovernmental Conference on Hitler' s extermination of the Jews is being held, which is obviously a welcome initiative.
The same determination to reduce nations to the level of mere administrative regions is also evident on every page of the opinion issued by the Commission for the Intergovernmental Conference.
I do not believe this to be the case. The reason for this decision was, rather, that we wanted to have a special instrument for the Eastern and Central European States which, like Malta and Cyprus, are involved in the accession process, but under different conditions.
Can you assure us that there will not be a preventative war against any State you care to mention, particularly those which, in their elections, do not ratify the policy adopted by the other Member States of the Union?
They must be non-discriminatory in their application, that is measures should not differentiate on the basis of geographical origin.
He was under the impression that the Syrians thought that, in exchange for the Golan Heights, all they had to do was to fax the Israelis a receipt.
Aiming instead at harmonised minimum standards will easily lead to a situation where we leap over the lowest hurdle and end up with the lowest common denominator, which will water down all the aims of competition policy.
We continue to fight against the trivialisation of the extreme right.
The Commission can only endorse this request because of course it corresponds precisely to what the Commission itself had originally proposed.
Mr President, allow me to start with the conquest of Kosovo.
The Commission is firmly convinced of the need to prepare a new proposal on developing the postal sector.
Madam President, the Presidency has already declared the result of the vote.
This is not rhetoric, but the new embodiment of a modern liberalism which unites the European States and constitutes a turning point for the European Parliament and the Commission.
And the more consumers invest, the brighter the prospects will be in the European business money markets.
Precise application of this principle can only reinforce the actions taken and give our citizens a clear view of each level of competence.
We need structural reforms in the European economy.
In the first place, if administrative procedures are not simplified, it will be hard to attain Community objectives on reform, with a view to greater efficiency and concentration.
But the tests available now are perfectly able to guarantee security in consumer health policy, albeit not for every individual animal.
But hedging operations are already allowed in the existing Article 21(1) of Directive 611/85 on UCITS.
We wanted to express our perplexity as regards these points by abstaining in committee.
I say this just so that we know where we stand.
The only way to eliminate misconceived ideas is to offer alternatives, which brings me back to the subject of our discussion. I firmly believe in the democratic force and value of debate, particularly to fight against demagoguery.
It should also be remembered, however, that no one voluntarily relinquishes power, and that applies to both men and women.
People need to understand that if they commit fraud they will be prosecuted, and that is not the case at the moment.
Within my group, it speaks for itself that social protection forms an important part of this social cohesion and should thus also be added to the agenda in Lisbon.
In your speech you mentioned the challenges of globalisation and enlargement which await us. I would add to these the future of our social model.
The agreements crystallise the decades-old legacy of copyright, and they represent a precisely considered and balanced solution for the regulation of copyright and neighbouring rights.
Does the Commission intend to do nothing - at least it has announced nothing - about this reform in 2000 either?
We in the European Union are one Community.
By the same token we have recently opposed arms sales to Indonesia, a stance that the Council unfortunately did not take into account.
What is more, the work carried out in Brussels should be of a much higher quality and be completely transparent, so that people might at least have some small sense of owning the process, now that Mr Prodi and his predecessor have taken their autonomy away from them.
Mr President, there is no doubt that the INTERREG initiative promotes efforts to achieve economic and social cohesion in the European Union.
My fear is that all of this has contributed to a report which is too detailed, too extensive and too late.
While conveying a desire to proceed rapidly, it also gives the impression that the Commission is in transmission rather than listening mode.
The competitiveness of the European steel industry also forms the subject of the Commission' s most recent communication, which we have not yet debated in Parliament.
If we admit new Member States then we need to put our own House in order first.
Please excuse this very legal answer.
We have always supported ECHO, its policies and its actions, even some which have been disputed by certain bodies. We believe that solidarity must be the distinctive feature of the EU' s external action.
First part
Secondly, I want to say that we must be consistent in our own behaviour and in our evaluations.
We can never talk enough about the difficulties experienced in the past by maritime and landlocked border regions which have been cut off economically, socially and culturally.
There is one thing, however, that we cannot deny, and that is that Mr Kouchner' s efforts to return Kosovo' s internal situation to normal have been extremely positive.
The forthcoming enlargement of the Union is used as an argument for this.
It is not so much a matter of the establishment of new regimes or further regulation, although that is part of it, but of identifying where there are gaps and loopholes in the chain from farm to table and closing them.
However, I totally reject any suggestion that I would allow the United States to determine the shape of our directive.
Postal services do not provide simply a postal delivery service but also a social service.
In conclusion, while key infrastructure projects have been supported by the European Regional Development Fund and the Cohesion Fund, we should remember that the European Social Fund has played a very important role in helping the less well-off in our society.
For five years, I have been the representative of the Committee on the Environment in a regional organisation, which assuredly does not have Parliament' s broad perspective.
Mr President, the Commission's proposal on further gradual and controlled liberalisation of postal services has been delayed mainly because of the reorganisation and reallocation of duties within the Commission and the fact that the new Commission needs to re-examine the issues involved.
We should retain some form of ex ante financial control.
We think its inclusion there would be both more appropriate and more effective.
Let me also once more thank my co-rapporteur Mr Leinen for our excellent collaboration.
I agree with what the Minister very rightly said about the culpability of Belgrade, but we should also remember that the secret services of the USA, Germany, France, Italy and the United Kingdom have been supplying arms and money to the KLA, a mafia, which has contributed to the problems in the area.
I hope that the Commission is able to accept the present amendment.
Declarations of principle are not enough.
I think that it is also obvious that our ability to act is linked to the Commission' s own scope for intervening, through its right of initiative.
Meanwhile, we have to offer the Commission a vote of confidence.
Why, in these circumstances, is the liability of Total as charterer not recognised?
I would like to finish off by asking the European Council and Commission a question.
I must remind you in particular of the efforts of Mr Rocard during the previous term.
My group is pleased that the Social Affairs Council gave the go-ahead for a better cooperation strategy as early on as the end of last year and that, in fact, a group of high-ranking officials has already been commissioned to submit to the Council an initial report by June 2000.
Here too, the structure of the economy differs for each Member State, and the ways in which the current status has been achieved are diverse.
It is important to remember that.
I hope that we do not go on into the evening session in any event.
Thirdly, world aid and assistance coming into the region, and hence into Macedonia as well, should be clearly multilateral, and should not subject the beneficiary country to direct obligations towards the donor country.
The Commission has put forward various proposals which are too stringent and we have come up with some alternatives.
This situation will not come about by the very creation of the authority but will evolve over time as confidence is gained in the authority itself.
These timber sales should be supported by strong media coverage in Member States.
Lastly, during the next Human Rights Commission there will also be a debate on rationalising the work of the Commission itself.
Can the Commission provide an assurance that Directive 93/75 concerning minimum requirements for vessels bound for or leaving Community ports and carrying dangerous or polluting goods will be implemented correctly in all Member States?
The legislation of the Member States must be brought into line with the agreements of the governments in Tampere, as paragraph 7 of the motion states.
I look forward to having a useful exchange of views this afternoon with the Members of Parliament who would clearly have preferred to do this last week if there had been an appropriate parliamentary forum available.
To conclude, the next five years will be crucial.
How can a universal service provider in my country survive with the liberalisation of cross-border mail which amounts to approximately 25%, as opposed to less than 5% in other countries?
I assume that the Member States will feel increasingly freer to use the name in their own language which fits the republic.
Subject: Statute for Members of the European Parliament The Council and Parliament are going to try to reach agreement on a Statute for the Members of the European Parliament.
Whether it is a matter of the balance of the biosphere, culture or cooperation with the third world, excessive competition is a factor increasing regression and insecurity.
If I compare this with the transparency proposal which pertains to legislation in the Netherlands, then the European model is vastly overshadowed by the Dutch model, and that proposal has met with a lot of criticism in the Netherlands.
In this context, a number of scientific questions that can only be resolved through further research remain open.
But, listening to you, Commissioner, we are somewhat frustrated because anyone already involved in these matters knows that in 1992, I believe, the Commission and Parliament drew up a very interesting text which already contained all the proposals included in the resolution drawn up by the transport committee.
Welcome
It is particularly appropriate that Mr Monti is responding to this debate because the great conundrum with postal services is how to square an open market and free and fair competition with providing a service which is universally available to all, even in the remotest and least inhabited region of the European Union.
I wonder why it is that the structural funds are not employed more efficiently.
Happy Valentine' s Day!
This is the kind of good practice we would like to see extended across the EU in terms of communication and publicity.
One fundamental point to be stressed is the balance which must be expressed in the message from Europe and which must exist between the people. There must also be a political balance between the participants in the negotiations.
Faced with these, we democrats cannot resign ourselves to the peace of the dead.
Mr President, this excellent directive will end the dumping of old cars, encourage recycling, and above all encourage manufacturers to design cars which can easily be recycled.
The vote will take place at 11 a.m. tomorrow.
In effect, this practice is responsible for a high death rate and is therefore incompatible with good fisheries management.
Most of the proposed amendments are of a purely technical nature.
You can be what you want to be.
It is also necessary to initiate permanent diplomatic relations and to establish constant dialogue.
The problem is that, when we look at FYROM, we can see how very difficult it is to cooperate economically with some neighbouring countries, such as Kosovo and Albania, or to cooperate politically with, for instance, Yugoslavia.
This is the only way of affording the victims the opportunity to make their claims for compensation.
That is why we are indebted to the Commission for taking a stance that separates it from the rest.
The European Parliament has not exactly been clean in its approach to things throughout its history.
What would you say to the forestry manager if his enterprise happened not to be in an Objective 2 region, or in a 5b region?
I would also like to fully support his comments on the need to allow the regions - such as the Basque Country, which I represent - a margin for action, by virtue of the principle of subsidiarity.
I would like to see a number of changes to our Assembly, particularly after the signing of the new Convention in May.
We must therefore take these memorandums into consideration and produce an extremely thorough piece of work.
Does this mean more flexibility, insecurity and fixed-term contracts?
It may be supposed, for example, as Commissioner Bolkestein gave us to understand during his hearing on 6 September last year, that the Commission might propose reducing these limits to 50 grams and two and a half times the basic tariff.
In April 1999, Parliament again reiterated its position that the accession of Cyprus should benefit the whole island, and help towards a political solution, but that accession should not be dependent upon such a solution.
The report addresses this and proposes integrating action to achieve equality between women and men in all aspects of work; it also recognises the importance of working with local and regional bodies which are those closest to the people to help ensure that all project results are mainstreamed.
There needs firstly to be clarity between all of the groups of this House and then between this House and the Commission.
But I believe that we should do all we can to keep the transport of dangerous goods to a minimum, in all countries, whether they are transit countries or not.
Serious response to reports, confidentiality at early stages and career protection will be assured for people who report wrong-doing in good faith and in ways that do not compromise investigations by untimely disclosure.
If the charterer' s liability entails a financial commitment, then doubtless the inspection will be enforced to a greater extent.
Nevertheless, Mr Alavanos, the Council is also aware that the total amount of resources made available to the appropriate international organisations in Kosovo does not match the desired amount, in terms of what the various Member States have been able to raise, and this has limited the real ability of these organisations to act on the ground.
I would therefore urge my colleagues not to support Amendment No 38 of the Christian Democrats and Amendment No 45 of some of the socialists.
The dialogue has been fruitful and has led to our preparing a proposal.
In point of fact, I consider this to be necessary because we heard, following the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market' s visit to Luxembourg, that it is of course inevitable, a God-given fact as it were, that the Court of Justice should take precedence over the Court of First Instance when it comes to using the joint translation service, and so more often than not, important cases handled by the Court of First Instance cannot be given the attention they deserve.
But we have to grasp the tools to do that.
In this regard, the current process of negotiations on Malta' s accession to the European Union must be used to ensure that this country rigorously monitors the oil tankers which sail under its flag.
This is an important subject for certain references which we have heard subsequently.
Question No 43 by (H-0045/00):
I think that all of us, the personal representatives of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs, your two representatives, and myself, as a representative of the Commission, will be going into matters in detail, but it will be afterwards, at a different level, one in which we will also be participating, that the last trade-offs must be made.
The majority have made their approval of the accounts conditional upon the new Commission' s implementing a series of reforms, so as to ensure that what we are familiar with from the previous Commission' s period of office is not repeated.
Pre-accession instruments are designed to provide technical and financial support for efforts by candidate countries to meet the demands of the Community acquis.
It is quite clear that the incidence of scrapie in sheep has been a contributing factor to the overall problem.
We should get it into perspective.
Madam President, on a point of order.
This is not just a technical revolution, but a complete organisational revolution as well.
It is in all of our interests to ensure that in Scotland too we contain ISA and prevent its further spread.
This will not be a matter of chance, since, let me repeat, I feel we have the same ambitions for these negotiations and that together we see it as a moment of truth for the European Union.
This is worth a compliment although I regret, of course, that he did not expound it in his own mother tongue.
There is no problem with them telling us the way they feel, there is no problem with a possible meeting during Parliament's next part-session.
Personally, I am pleased with some of the replies, for example, in relation to issues as sensitive as Schengen and the Europol Convention, which we hope will be reviewed, and I am pleased with the words of the Minister for Justice with regard to trying to bring them under the jurisdiction of the judicial authorities.
Mr President, firstly my thanks and appreciation to Commissioner Patten for his comments here today, particularly in relation to the role of the European Union in the peace process, and for reaffirming that our role is not only that of "banker" for the entire operation.
I also assume that you, Commissioner, want to honour the reputation of, and the work put in by, your predecessors and that your offices will pursue the same objective.
We want a strong Commission, which can act in an independent and neutral manner, but with political sense.
It can hardly be because customers are satisfied.
Since the approval of Directive 85/611, the investment funds sector has undergone lengthy development and it is now important to modernise the rules.
We need a framework of regulations at international level.
Legal certainty is important for businesses: this is a subject, the importance of which the Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, emphasised in her last intervention - and I am very grateful to her for the way she always takes the widest interest in subjects regarding the single market, including, in this case, competition.
I believe that this opens up very extensive employment potential in the postal administration in particular, which can prepare its existing staff for this very interesting challenge by means of training and further training measures.
We run the risk of delegating issues relating to the same offences which will then be punished in different ways.
The overall growth of the European Union and the awareness of being European citizens: this is why we believe that the Culture 2000 programme, albeit with a scarcity of funds, can make a considerable contribution to this great common goal.
.
The lion' s share of these adjustments pertains to pension plans: eleven restrictions and two improvements.
We have not done this so far, and this is something you ought to be instrumental in changing.
There are plenty of areas for serious discussion.
Parliament must therefore be involved in the work - not by being part of the high-level group, but by enabling parliamentary representatives to track the work of the latter and come up with proposals as to how the process is to be carried on.
Fleeing from all quarters, hundreds of immigrants took refuge on a hill on the outskirts of the town.
It is the case of Alexander Nikitin.
This condemnation is as unacceptable as the threatened breaking off of official contacts with the Austrian Republic.
And, I say to Madame Reding, thank you for the support and the help you have given so far, keep up the good work, we are on your side.
Proposals are drawn up by Member States and are submitted for approval to the European Commission, which checks their conformity with the general guidelines, adopted.
After a month, however, there was still only a handful of observers.
After all, who protects these deeply corrupt regimes, if not the governments of the rich countries?
The introduction of these new technologies is not a threat, but a new opportunity for our tourism because it offers the potential to provide new and innovative tourism products and services, which our tourism needs for an ever-lengthening tourism season, so that it can attract new customers and offer new and alternative forms of tourism.
Finally, the Union for a Europe of Nations Group wonders if the idea of foisting unified management rules on the postal services of the fifteen Member States might not be, essentially, flawed.
All the standards and all the objectives relating to protected zones should be achieved within 10 years, not 16.
In this we are combining the interests of these citizens with the interests of pensioners who want to live life in tranquillity.
Does not the Council' s representative think that this makes it difficult to participate in the democratic decision-making process?
.
This teratogenicity has been demonstrated by just one English laboratory, perhaps because it is the only one that has carried out tests.
There is a great deal of pain, a lot of suffering in Kosovo.
You gave consideration to important questions of principle in your programme.
I therefore wonder whether Commissioner Patten does not agree with me that it would have been only right and proper to have invited at least one Arab state to the holocaust conference in Stockholm.
We have fully supported the efforts of the United Nations mission and the international security forces in Kosovo to prevent further outbreaks of violence against minorities and to protect the populations under threat.
What else can we do to support this opposition?
My group, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, noted with satisfaction that the Council Presidency is far from happy with the current state of affairs.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 12 p.m.
The Commission must therefore be the guarantor of the strategic framework for promoting ability to work and quality of work, of the assessment of results and of the effective communication of best practices.
The vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
This proves that it is possible to go into issues in depth while respecting this mandate, by using the terms laid down in the mandate and all the openings which it offers.
It is a 'Trojan horse' which is unfortunately reappearing in Europe larger than ever since the Second World War.
It is obvious to me that the regional and local authorities, and their representative bodies, the Committee of the Regions and, of course, the European Parliament should have been involved in the clearest way possible and at the earliest possible opportunity framing this programme.
With respect to the general principle of incorporating a perspective of equality, as you know, this principle is included in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
It is of key importance that the American authorities provide greater clarity regarding the way in which they are trying to offer these families a dignified alternative in keeping with a traditional way of life.
Mr President, I would firstly like to point out that I was Mayor of Bilbao during the nineties, which gave me the opportunity to present one of the first urban pilot projects to be subsidised by the Commission.
Today, the banks and the waters of more than four rivers crossing four countries are polluted, which is why the European Union needs to concentrate its efforts and pressure on the urgent need for all candidate countries to come into line with Community environmental protection standards.
Its borders are set not by how may countries want to join, but by how many countries it can accommodate.
This is very much the line also just presented by Minister Amado.
So, Mr President, I will walk away from this debate, for which I am very grateful to Parliament, in the knowledge that we have the European Parliament' s intellectual and political support, which appears to come from all sides of the House, for competition policy, its basic appreciation for the work the Commission is carrying out and its confidence in our ability to continue to deliver in the future.
We welcome the report' s rejection of the idea originally put forward by the rapporteur of creating a taxation system, as this would be impossible to implement and enforce for all the Member States.
And to what extent will the European Parliament be able to play a role in this?
This is positive because, in that way, the nine million cars which are introduced each year onto European roads will actually be processed appropriately, and this will benefit us all.
I think that this will benefit our credibility in the UN Human Rights Committee.
The precautionary principle is not a new concept.
In principle, I am in favour of abolishing public sector monopolies, whether in water, gas, electricity, telephone, satellite, cable or any other services.
Remember that the Marshall Plan was not effective simply because of the scale of its resources: it was even more effective because it made us Europeans work together towards a new horizon; it gave us a fresh outlook in terms of our politics and our economy.
Yet there is one positive point which I must share with you.
Only after such critical appraisal of the future policies of the parties involved in the coalition discussions can a decision be made as to whether this government is contrary to the democratic spirit of Europe.
If anything, the European defence identity should serve to strengthen NATO" .
Madam President, we are therefore working on this issue with determination, energy and the full support of all the governments and all the Heads of Government.
The conflict in Cyprus will only be resolved through improved relations between the two communities with a view to establishing a federation in the - we hope - not too distant future.
Perhaps 'redundant' is the most serious epithet, and you are not responsible for this. It is the responsibility of this Parliament.
I find it difficult to understand how he can index regional and social funds into this mathematical equation.
Speaking in this House on 21 July President-designate Prodi undertook to take full account of the second report of the Committee of Independent Experts on Commission reform, which contains 90 detailed recommendations and which we are debating today.
That concludes Question Time.
As I did not fully understand the plan, I contacted the Minister for Economic and Financial Affairs, Mr Rato, in a letter of 14 December which I have here, to ask him for more information on the document submitted.
Cultural diversity is important, and it is under threat.
Could they, for example, have a place, at least as observers, in the different political and security committees or in the military committee?
We are particularly in the debt of those who undertook the difficult deployment of all their crew.
But how are we now going to enforce this if there is indeed a lack of inspectors, esteemed European Commission?
I would like to list again the things that have actually already been accomplished and that we can be pleased about.
How can the Commission ensure that this sort of development financed through the Structural Funds does not conflict with the nature conservation needs of the area?
Mr President, there is a mystery.
We see enlargement as a process of partnership, not a process of "them and us".
You are a first class European.
The third will be operations in which the European forces act alone. In the first and second types we will need to cooperate with NATO and must therefore establish a transparent, positive and confident relationship between ourselves and NATO, as appropriate, which will be good for both the Alliance and ourselves.
We in the Council will be trying to provide information on this matter during the Portuguese Presidency.
It seems to me when entering the conciliation process for Culture 2000, having a poet to lead us in our endeavours is entirely appropriate.
Only then will it be possible for the desired multiplier effect to be achieved.
Consequently, even though this is not a Community priority, a Member State can decide to finance research and development projects in the civil nuclear technology area, provided that these projects contribute to regional development. The Commission does not have to be systematically informed of these.
On the one hand, if we establish quotas for women, why do we also not create quotas according to age or ethnic group, quotas of Catholics, of workers, of those who wear glasses.
The Commission is planning in particular to develop a genuine European policy on asylum and immigration. It wishes to boost judicial assistance and cooperation and to develop an effective approach to the fight against all forms of crime" .
As recognised in the report, which we will adopt in the forthcoming weeks, we accept that the directive contains some loopholes.
These worthwhile amendments are the outcome of this; I think that we will be able to arrive at a solution to the problem, that is, to reconcile environmental requirements with market and labour requirements.
Is there anyone who wishes to speak in favour of this proposal?
The Commission will also support the presidency' s efforts to clarify the judicial framework and the framework for police and judicial administrative cooperation in the fight against money laundering, an eminently cross-pillar issue.
On the question of the indigenous peoples in the US, I am sure that the resolution which was primarily addressed to the US authorities will have been noted by them.
It is essential that we have that reform, both for the sake of the current Union, and certainly to facilitate accessions.
It is to that end that our efforts are now engaged.
Are we really prepared for the next relief and rehabilitation stage which you mention because that again will demand massive resources.
I would ask the Portuguese Presidency to study the possibility of implementing a complete strategy for the prevention of maritime accidents at European level, using all the means at our disposal - technological, structural and socio-economic - to prevent a disaster such as this from happening again in the future.
Members will recall that the European Union is the largest financial donor to the overall efforts in bringing reconciliation to the people of the Middle East.
The European Commission responded in 1994 by setting up a disaster preparedness programme known as DIPECHO. This was intended to be proactive and, using a regional approach, to prevent disasters or at least to minimise their effects on the population.
It is not our intention to start a punitive legislative campaign here today, but to continue on our present course, advocating sustainable development.
I perfectly understand Mr Staes' s concerns.
According to information received from the International Atomic Agency, the design of the plant takes into account the possibility of earthquakes stronger than any ever recorded in the area and particularly more than ten times stronger than the one registered in June 1998 in Adana.
And then we have a system designed to hinder the Commission and make it more difficult - especially what was called the "contre-filet" system, under which the Council could block the Commission by a simple majority even when the Council was not capable of finding an alternative to the implementing measure concerned.
Mr President, the beauty of statistical data is that it is not only reliable but also comparable.
They have been put into the hands of a single Commissioner, Mr Antonio Vitorino, and we congratulate them on this as well.
I would remind Members that, according to the guidelines for these sittings, questions must be concise and be worded in a way which will allow a brief answer.
This can only reinforce the concept based on a number of elements of good practice drawn from our experience of the current 1994-1999 programmes. I feel this augurs well for effective cooperation between our two institutions, at this time when programming for the period 2000-2006 is being undertaken, good joint working practice, which is, Mr Hatzidakis, backed up by something I am very attentive to: observance of the code of conduct which links our two institutions.
It is high time that we reached an agreement.
The problem is not Mr Kouchner but the legal basis on which he is working, namely Resolution 1244.
So, once again - and finally - I want to thank you for your help in allowing us to measure stability with greater technical certainty and better comparability.
That is, after all, a question the people often ask.
I would also like to highlight the work carried out by the rapporteur, Mr Rapkay, who has dissected this dense and comprehensive text in such a concise way.
I would like to explain our thinking here.
Mr President, Commissioner, I believe that the unfortunate incident involving the Erika should in fact, as others have said this afternoon, constitute a decisive watershed which will see the end to this type of accident in the European Union where, since 1967, there have been seventeen accidents involving large oil tankers; more than one every two years.
I believe that patents on living organisms are designed only to control the global food supply, specifically for commercial purposes and for no other reason.
Firstly, the same penalty clauses regarding European fraud must apply in all Member States of the European Union.
Secondly, we need to retain the details as they are included in the common position.
I just have the distinct feeling that she would have preferred to take it a little further at this stage.
Certainly the process has always been very complex, as a result of historical decisions, and these must eventually be rationalised.
The sitting was suspended at 3.50 p.m. and resumed at 4.05 p.m.
Therefore, throughout this debate, whenever I can, I will go directly to see the national parliaments too.
Too often we have put forward recommendations and they have not been acted upon even though you have said very often that you will act on them.
In other words, if we are not represented fully in the Commission we will not have an input into policy discussions.
It is nevertheless important to reiterate the need for the main priority of these funds to be the development of the countries and regions with the greatest problems and of the outermost regions, of which the Portuguese regions of the Azores and Madeira are examples. This must be done with the objective of achieving economic and social cohesion.
The European Commission has just issued a proposal on transparency.
The competition policy has, as far as these resources permitted, contributed to this event.
Mr President, I would like to congratulate the President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner Diamantopoulou on the excellent speeches they have made today.
There should therefore be a universal application: it is not enough that the G7 countries or the other industrialised countries are involved.
Parliament is currently discussing this issue in another context.
These will be our major guidelines for action over the next five years.
It would follow that if we do not wish the same old failures of the past to reassert themselves, we must use the current window of opportunity of improved economic performance in order to launch a new policy of transition into self-sustained higher growth levels in our economy.
Personally I argued in favour of a rather harder line, and I supported Amendments Nos 1, 4, 6, 7 and 8, as well as the oral amendment tabled by the Socialist Group.
What could be the cause of this?
The President-in-Office of the Council came up with a good suggestion, namely to budget the European Development Fund.
I sat in the meeting where the scientists told us that haddock would soon be extinct in the Irish Sea and at that very time haddock had a special, spectacular increase of breeding in the Irish Sea so the scientists can be wrong.
I am filled with disgust when certain of our opponents get mileage out of the millions of deaths that took place in the gas chambers of the concentration camps as cheap propaganda, as, for example, the Italian MEP Bertinotti did yesterday on Italian TV when he accused Mr Haider of denying the holocaust.
In many ways, the prerequisites differ from one Member State to another.
The reform does not entail any reduction in the Commission' s activities, but requires them to focus on the most important dossiers.
I am grateful to Mrs Maes for not only the comments that she has made now but the sustained commitment that she has shown to change ever since she came into this House.
We know the Member States have done their duty - if I can use that expression - doing their calculations and preparing their national accounts in line with ESA 95, and they have already published their corresponding estimates.
The Barak government has given to understand that it intends to conclude a peace agreement with a state as the other party.
This is the challenge.
If we do not have this picture then it will not be possible to make reasonable decisions in two years' time about the future of the policy.
Having said this, Madam President, I am prepared, once again, to be a voice crying in the wilderness as a result of the absence of a fishing policy.
In the past the British Conservatives' double standards have brought the United Kingdom' s House of Commons into disrepute, and there is a very real danger that such behaviour would have a similar impact on this Parliament.
It is all about making it clear that water - and this is not the first time this has been mentioned today - is no ordinary commodity but a resource which belongs to the individual EU Member States and which must be protected and treated with the respect due to it.
I have witnessed from close up within the Development Committee how thousands of projects stagnate and how sometimes up to 80% of the money is not spent. Sometimes, an enormous reservoir of money is created, not because it is not desperately needed, not because there are no sound proposals, but because the whole system has collapsed.
I understand that on 26 January the association wrote to the College of Quaestors requesting permission to set up a table outside the Hemicycle today to publicise their initiative.
During the few months that I have been a Commissioner that has happened twice, first of all in New York at our meeting with Minister Tang and most recently at the meeting in Peking and we will continue to make that concern manifest.
Madam President, many of the speakers from the Socialist Group have already identified key areas where there are gaps in the Commission' s statement.
Fish escapes from aquaculture premises have been reported in the past and the virus has been found in wild stocks.
It is obvious that transparency will be a permanent fixture on the European agenda and it will, of course, feature on the agenda of this Intergovernmental Conference.
However, we are fully aware that the final decision on this matter will fall to the Heads of State and Government.
Children have lost parents, families are bereft, hopeless, helpless and they have lost absolutely everything.
Naturally the Court will be able to give its considered opinion on the proposed changes to the Financial Regulation but it is useful to recall Mr Karlsson' s comments to this House last month. "The Commission's internal control" he said "is not forceful enough in preventing incorrect operation.
How do you intend to go about integrating immigrants into the Community, reuniting them with their families and recognising their rights and duties on an equal footing with those of the citizens of Europe?
Firstly, there will be a need for more concerted action between all international players, by which I mean donors, requiring greater coordination, greater coherence and improved links between humanitarian aid and development policies; it will also require strengthening of the multilateral system and greater attention being paid to indebtedness and to financing and development problems.
The bet before us is a bet with time.
It therefore needs to be withdrawn from today's agenda.
I also welcome, therefore, the fact that responsibility is to fall to the individual, without the Commission giving up any of its responsibility.
I too, therefore, can hardly wait to hear what you have to say to our proposed amendments.
Again as regards the reversal of the burden of proof, something which is recognised in international, fundamental law, the presumption of innocence is essential.
Finally, I have certainly believed for a long time, coming from an agricultural background myself, that if we had fed the animals the proper food and if the animal feedstuffs had been made up of the proper compounds we would never have had BSE in the first place.
I also welcome the fact that the estimates of the deficits for the 1999 financial year that are due to be published in March 2000 are already based on the new ESA, i.e. the analysis is based on consolidated aggregates that are economically relevant.
The German version is not very clear here.
Therefore, Madam President, I believe that it is our right and our obligation to ask the Austrians to reconsider and reflect, because this type of menace, which we have suffered before in Europe, may not only harm Austria, but it may also spread, and I say this bearing history in mind.
Mr Rübig, as I said, I understand your concerns very well.
As you can see, as a new MEP, I am trying to get to grips with the dossier and I must admit that I have great difficulty doing so.
After the collapse of the dam in New Mexico in 1979, which resulted in the spill of 370 000 cubic metres of radioactive water and eleven hundred tonnes of pure uranium, this place is one of the world' s most contaminated areas.
I want to thank the Commissioner for his comprehensive statement on the subject and his suggestion that we might indeed organise ourselves at European level to give assistance to Member States and regions that have tragedies like this.
When Sweden joined the European Union, it was allowed to retain quantitative restrictions on alcoholic beverages which travellers can bring into the country from other Member States.
This part of Amendment No 41 cannot, therefore, be approved.
Firstly, private investment must be assisted.
It is absolutely crucial that parallel temporary measures be introduced in the Objective 1 Regions, that is to say job creation measures, special programmes for supporting employment opportunities for women and initiatives to help people set up their own business.
Indeed the Court of Auditors has called it fiction.
Is this speculative?
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to fully endorse Mrs Pack' s very emotionally-charged contribution.
Past experience dictates that, as the elected representatives of the European taxpayer, we should, and indeed must, demand financial probity and transparency in the disbursement and auditing of this money, hence our amendments and additions relate to achieving what are known as "value for money" indicators in the grant-giving process.
Mr President, every satellite photo proves that we do indeed live on the blue planet, yet the abundance of water is an illusion.
This issue comes on top of our deep worries about the plight of the civilian population in Chechnya, and I have heard Mr Posselt on this subject before.
Ladies, have you so little pride that you would be prepared to hold a ministerial office or wear the sash of an elected representative by virtue of the mathematical odds of the quota?
The current Directive on UCITS has become antiquated and outdated.
By Christmas, there were perhaps 100 and, by the spring, still only a fraction of the force it had been agreed should come was, in fact, in place.
I can certainly see that it has its shortcomings in failing to undertake a sufficiently rigorous analysis of macroeconomic policy within the European Union, and it is this policy which stands in the way of the aforementioned solidarity-based revival of the European social state, model.
Secondly, and I am sure that the honourable Member recognises this as well, some of the tragic stories to come out of Kosovo in recent weeks have not been about child mortalities during carriage of a baby, but child mortality after a healthy baby has been born.
The European Union underlined its full support for the efforts of the United Nations on the need for a tribunal to prosecute former Khmer Rouge leaders.

I therefore understand why we are meeting at this time, which is usually set aside for other activities and not for debates, discussions and the exchange of information.
Hence his disappearance of over one month.
I would like to say however that it is, and has always been, a very modest budget and therefore the funding for this programme is more symbolic than real.
The debate is closed.
In order to compensate for this situation, the European Commission should be obliged to make regular reports to us.
. As regards the Commission's position with respect to the amendments tabled by Parliament I wish to confirm what my colleague stated during the debate in this House on Tuesday, 15 February.
Europe can no longer refuse to give the recognition - both political and in terms of policy-making - that the fastest growing sector of its economy deserves because of its economic and social position.
Now, the amendments which are to be voted on at the plenary sitting have been reduced in number to only fifteen.
I cannot understand the proposal to make a regulation out of which it is possible for some Member States to slip without any penalty and I cannot understand either that within a European Union where we are only 50% self-sufficient in fish for our domestic needs that there is any highly sensitive information, that by making the reports that are necessary that the national interest or the regional interest of some states or fishing communities is going to be put at risk.
The cost of a baby being born blind is too high; there are no benefits that can compensate for this.
I have two questions on this subject to which your knowledge of the subjects concerned and the parties involved should make it possible to provide enlightening replies for our further debates and our work.
Secondly, I should like the phasing out of noxious materials to be carried out consistently.
The creation of a Charter of Fundamental Rights will be one of the important projects in the immediate future.
Even if the majority in this House were to adhere to this ultraliberal idea of a supposedly perfect market, it would not make any difference to the real world.
It is quite the opposite.
To encourage and support dialogue as the cornerstone of the successful adaptation to change the Commission is also developing the recommendations of the Lillehammer Report by preparing the setting up of a European observatory on industrial change.
To support this statement, I would point to an excellent report drafted by our colleague, Mário Soares, in the international bodies on the state of the seas and oceans.
As Mrs Terrón i Cusí said in her speech, 1999 was a year of great expectations in the field of justice and home affairs - an expectation realised with the coming into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, an expectation realised with the conclusions of the Tampere Council, and a fundamental expectation, as from this year, that will be realised in the form of specific actions.
Finally, I must congratulate the Council Presidency on the coming Europe-Africa Summit and call on all the participants to contribute to solid practical action to promote the development of peace, democracy and the eradication of poverty in the underdeveloped countries of Africa.
Lasting peace in the region can only be achieved by means of an agreement which guarantees the security of the Israeli borders, as well as Syria' s integrity.
As in other sectors, the general ban on state aid according to Article 87 (1) of the EC Treaty also applies to the iron and steel industry.
After five years only four have done so.
For the others, well, we would have time to see what would happen, according to local circumstances.
I am very much afraid that some will prefer to receive no financing rather than reveal their poor management. This has already been seen in cases where the sending of this data was compulsory, as with the MAGPs.
Although there is much that is good about the new directive, it is nonetheless not without its defects.
The line followed by our group for the negotiations with the Council of Ministers will allow an acceptable solution to be found for farmers too.
Enough regrets and thoughts have been expressed about this event.
I am convinced that this proposal will increase legal certainty for businesses for three reasons: by virtue of the direct effect of Article 81(3), it will permit authorisation, without a prior decision, of all restrictive competition agreements which meet the exemption conditions; it will create the opportunity to help businesses in the event of doubts over interpretation through the publication of reasoned opinions; it will be accompanied by exemption regulations and guidelines which will clarify the rules and ensure certainty.
This is just a political fact about which little can be done at present, I think.
Moreover, I would also urge this House to take into consideration the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, adding a whole raft of thoughts on key areas such as combating social exclusion, support for the social economy and the implementation of the employment strategy.
Reality is obstinate.
We must therefore find a political solution.
It appears that Goodyear in Italy received Italian and European subsidies to the tune of approximately EUR 40 million.
They clearly have to make some effort so that they are no longer described as snail mail even if they cannot attain the speed of email.
Indeed, it is unthinkable that we could put in place substantial and procedural legal regulations solely for one sector - that of the protection of financial interests - without first having created a European legal system.
Parallel to this we have also embarked on the process of improving coherence and clarifying and bringing to the surface and into the open the real or imaginary problems we are having in this respect.
Mr President, today the people of Northern Ireland see a strange irony.
All these firms have gone ahead with job cuts and even redundancies.
At the same time, we support the establishment of a European police academy as suggested in Tampere as a step in the right direction.
I hope that the debate will convince a few more people.
A socially just Europe is still highly topical, for what we need to do as a matter of priority is place the fight against mass unemployment and poverty firmly at the centre of the Union' s policies.
I shall briefly remind you that LIFE is a financial instrument used to support environmental policies within the European Union and also in third countries, whether they be neighbouring countries around the Mediterranean, countries around the Baltic Sea or applicant countries.
The authority must become the authoritative source of scientific advice and information on food safety issues.
I hope that the European Parliament will be hanging onto the coattails of the Commission in this reform process.
The one and only significance of the European Union is the will to transcend the atrocious history of the twentieth century which gave the coup de grâce to any ideal of humanism within the heart of Europe, and which is still highly topical today.
VOTE
It has been done in a number of different areas but, unfortunately, the postal sector has remained the one major exception until now.
The Committee rejected this discriminatory proposal and decided that all refugees should have a place on the EQUAL programme on identical conditions.
This is not though to deny the importance of environmental considerations in relation to fish farming.
Parliament has taken due note of your comments.
We have seen this in the aborted Seattle Conference and we are now seeing it in the bilateral conferences with different regions or countries of the world.
The European food authority will be a key ingredient in the EU's food safety regime in the years ahead.
Heaton-Harris (PPE-DE).
For us, it is important that the EU should instead concentrate on just a few areas in which it can really be of use.
Neither can we fix what the age for a vintage car should be as there are very great differences from one country' s statutes to another' s.
However, in the absence of these powers, it should not seek to substitute a less effective measure.
Mr President, Bosnia and Kosovo have shaken Europe.
We need an equitable distribution of the extra cost that has been incurred.
Regarding this problem of partnership, I shall be extremely attentive to ensuring that the terms of the Structural Funds regulations are applied properly.
We do not want the US model - a model which has spectacularly failed to create the employment that is necessary to provide a decent quality of life.
Thank you, Mrs Banotti.
We had a lot of amendments, but succeeded in agreeing upon a report.
The question is: who prosecutes?
In this context we are also proposing to strengthen significantly the control function carried out by the food and veterinary office located in Dublin.
These are the classic symptoms of continued obstruction by national governments - bureaucratic red-tape blocking market entry.
This is certainly true for the relations between the European Union and the western Balkans.
The vessel is anchored outside the port, as the condition it is in is a safety hazard for the port and the surrounding areas, and because it cannot be inspected properly, as there is no one who will pay.
We are building a vast European area which will firstly be linked economically and then politically.
The first is a policy of persuasion.
And we hope, during the Portuguese Presidency, to present the final version to the Justice and Home Affairs Council, taking account of the soundings that I have just mentioned.
In order to do so, it will be necessary to improve discussion and the sharing of experience among the various Member States, to set up a coordinating body to implement a 'Women and Science' monitoring system within the fifth framework programme for research and technical development, specially responsible for gathering and disseminating statistics collected in the implementation of the framework programme for research and technical development regarding the rate of women' s participation in research activities.
I should like to thank President Prodi and Commissioner Kinnock.
However, the use of the precautionary principle has been increasingly in the spotlight in recent years.
According to the experts, few of these complete cars are of no value.
It is true, there are some European regulations and interpretative statements on the way.
Subject: Compliance with Directive 96/71/EC concerning the posting of workers The posting of workers directive has still not been implemented in Denmark, even though the deadline has passed.
I do not understand why the power centres of Europe are keeping quiet, letting things pass and, by working with the Russians as if nothing were amiss, giving its support to the government which is waging this war.
Indeed, if we add the two Members who have declared themselves, then the result of the vote would be ....
Mr President, we are therefore wondering, and we ask the Commission - although, of course, Mr Bolkestein is not here, but Mr Monti is a man of many parts and I think he may have a view on this: should those studies not examine the economic and social impact of the various liberalisation scenarios envisaged on each, and I repeat, on each one of the European Union' s Member States?
Three million victims, two million driven from their homes within the country' s borders, hundreds of thousands driven away across its borders, including women and children.
However, if full expression is to be given to the decisions which may eventually be taken at Geneva, then the office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights must be provided with the necessary resources.
The Commission is following with interest the planned construction of a nuclear power plant in Akkuyu, Turkey and recognises the importance of ensuring that the construction of the new plant follows the highest internationally accepted nuclear safety standards.
In this respect the Commission communication before us today is opportune, as is the report by Mr Viceconte whom I congratulate.
.
As I have said many times before, the fisheries sector is more a victim than the cause of damage to the marine ecosystem and tomorrow we will be able to confirm this in the debate on the Erika.
Now the Presidency and the Council have to bring the presents which we have asked them for in our letter to the three kings.
This obviously caused a slight reduction in the Union' s per capita GDP level.
Because Denmark does not have a system for declaring collective agreements to be universally applicable rules, provision must be made in the implementing legislation so that, apart from current conditions of employment stipulated in legislation, the hours in universally applicable collective agreements, concluded by the most representative organisations, also apply to posted workers.
We are also preparing a communication to instigate a debate on means of ensuring greater security in the information and knowledge society and in combating computer crime.
First let me say that it would be a great help to us, now that we have reached the stage where this is being processed by Parliament, if you could make specific proposals which we could take into account.
This is a perverse interpretation of ending discrimination.
But look at us now! We are observing the misery in Chechnya in a position of powerlessness, and regard the wars in Africa with indifference, despite the fact that we have close ties with so many of these countries, given that they are ex-colonies.
We need to continue to stand up for these rights, especially in our own Member States and societies, but also elsewhere.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market is not complete.
The extent of their importance can be seen in the political implications of the delay in resolving the outstanding Anglo/French dispute over British beef which has caused such anger in my country and such frustration with the workings of the Union' s disputes resolution procedures.
It is a report which came about with difficulty and may well be too late.
To them I just want to say, as the English expression goes, 'You can' t have it all.'
The federalists imagine that they are thereby going to create unity through constraint, but this is a totally superficial concept.
It is already strange within the convention that is drafting the charter to see representatives of some Member States, especially Britain and France, seeking to argue that a mandatory charter would somehow be an infringement of national sovereignty.
We had floods in Ireland also and I want to express my sympathy with the people in Ireland who suffered from these.
I am, up to a point, concerned about how the Council will fight for the principles contained in the Treaty of Amsterdam and whose purpose is to ensure that citizens have a better opportunity to participate in the decision-making process.
I take some mild encouragement from the fact that levels of state aid to industry in Europe appear to be falling.
Subject: Ethnic cleansing of Serbs in Kosovo Since the end of the bombing of Yugoslavia by NATO and the EU aimed at preventing the ethnic cleansing of Kosovar Albanians by Serbia, and since the arrival of KFOR on 12 June 1999, 200 000 Serbs living in Kosovo have been expelled and 768 murdered, constituting ethnic cleansing on a larger scale than that carried out by the Serbs themselves.
There has been a strong increase in cross-border marketing of investments within the European Union and the directive itself is used as a model for legislation throughout the world.
We must increase our efficiency in this area. We must reopen the Danube to boats.
In the light of the fact that 50% of unemployment in the Union is essentially structural and given the particular sensitivity of the situation in the border regions - I need only refer to the possibility of unwelcome migration - this is not only reasonable but imperative.
It is a sector which comprises small and medium-sized businesses.
On the question of the referendum which various Members have referred to: we must consider if a referendum always needs to be held in order to honour obligations under international law and under the law of nations.
Finally, our group should like once again to thank the rapporteur, who has gone to a great deal of trouble.
They see unequal treatment of men and women, of people of different ages, of minorities, of people of different coloured skins, of races, of beliefs, of immigrants, even neighbours.
In the light of developments in recent days, it might well be asked what we really are to do about these intergovernmental conferences and treaty amendments when government leaders - in reality the European Council of Ministers - make decisions in relation to an independent Member State entailing intervention in that Member State' s democratic process.
Let us be honest.
For twenty years, the majority within Parliament has attempted to make European environmental policy greener.
I cannot and do not want to go any further as we are pushed for time.
This public prosecutor would have the authority, recognised by the EU Treaty and therefore by the Member States, to investigate thoroughly any case threatening the Community budget and interests.
Oz' s impression is also echoed in the Israeli press.
Question No 42 by (H-0817/99):
I grew up as a kid hoping I would be allowed to stay up on Saturday evenings in order to see a television programme about a community policeman called Dixon of Dock Green.
Agenda
The common market in postal services will be created on the terms of the marketeers.
It symbolises the need for solidarity with the countries of the south, particularly those in Africa, the Caribbean and the Pacific which questioned us extensively on this subject in Seattle.
Frankly, I believe that this modernisation has been satisfactory.
The next dialogue in Lisbon on 25 February will be an important test.
So if the European Union, the Council and the Commission are proposing - and I assume that Parliament will support that proposal tomorrow - the first stabilisation and association agreement in south-eastern Europe, in the Balkan region - I am quite happy to use that term - it is primarily in gratitude for or acknowledgement of the fact that FYROM itself has worked its way into a good position, in economic and, of course, mainly in political terms, in face of the war in the neighbouring region and also in relation to its own minority.
Perhaps the reference to the posts is imprecise.
The next item is the debate on the report (A5-0107/1999) by Mr Berend, on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, on the sixth periodic report on the social and economic situation and development of the regions of the European Union [SEC(99)0066 - C5-0120/99 - 1999/2123(COS)].
Greater precision in the selection process will lead to greater effectiveness, because the money should not be squandered recklessly.
Increasing the number of women or, as the French prime minister put it, increasing the influence of women in the decision-making centres, is the best way of renewing the policy, of reshaping the approach to the question, of injecting political thought with new ideas and new experience: the new ideas and experience which women can inject by reason of the different way in which they live and grow up.
Then we shall see that the rights of the child are only respected within a proper family, the rights of workers are only respected in the intermediary bodies which we have recently destroyed and that citizens' rights are only respected within sovereign states.
On ratifying the Amsterdam Treaty, all Member States stated that they wanted to accord combating fraud against the financial interests of the European Union the same priority as combating fraud to their own detriment.
Mrs Schleicher referred to a kind of committee magic, something we have long talked about.
There is huge duplication of effort.
It is desirable for Member States to have a certain amount of freedom to determine the number of projects themselves within the confines of a certain budget.
However, in this case, the fact that we are living longer means that there are more senior citizens.
Before 20 January last, during nineteen months, the only killing we witnessed in the Kingdom of Spain was that of José Luis Geresta, member of ETA, in March 1999.
Madam President, I strongly refute any statement, demonstration or feeling of xenophobia or racism.
It is not an easy topic and, in my opinion, the efforts made by Mrs Lienemann are very laudable indeed.
Finally, there is the lack of transparency.
You mentioned before that we are on the brink of catastrophe there and nothing is being done.
What message can we send to the fishermen of Europe, and their families, and the fishing industries, both the extractive and processing and marketing industries, and the related and secondary industries which depend on fishing in so many European ports, in so many European regions, in most cases peripheral regions, who rightly demand that this problem be dealt with as a priority?
Moving on now, then, to the point where there is (or, I hope, was) a lack of agreement, namely OTC derivatives.
I would urge Parliament to support them.
Mr President, it is a very worthwhile White Paper and you will not hear a word from me on the food safety authority.
If we are to realise our ambitions in the field of foreign policy, then effective anticipation and preparation for all sorts of crises, particularly humanitarian ones, are essential prerequisites.
It received strong support from the rest of the Commissioners and it has been through an interservice consultation in the whole of the Commission.
In the period leading up to this, it already appeared, on the basis of the initial drafts, that the Commission had made very important pledges.
Indeed, it was possible to welcome the weakness of the single currency initially in 1999, as it favoured growth in an unexpected way, but you cannot for ever hide the fact that it is, in fact, symptomatic of bad policies and bad operating conditions.
Generally speaking, we recognise the need for proper consideration to be given in different instances to all aspects surrounding these kinds of operations, including their effects in terms of employment.
We already have, on the international side, plans in place to combat drug trafficking, money laundering and so on.
We expect to dedicate a considerable sum to improving the healthcare system.
Your question switched to the subject of arms, a broader policy issue which I do not think falls within the scope of this question but which the Council will, of course, address in the future, if it sees fit and if it decides to put it in a specific context.
Inhabitants of countries in the European Union ought, nonetheless, to be able to benefit from a minimum network of social protection, irrespective of which country they live in.
That is the agenda and I think that we should stick to the agenda.
There must, of course, be transparency regarding the selection criteria for projects and local action groups.
I also doubt that any of you can believe that Milosevic could resist for very long if the international community eventually resolved the question of the final status of Kosovo.
In this way vehicles of historic value can be preserved for future generations.
On the whole those seem to have been dealt with relatively satisfactorily and I hope that the same can be true of this project which - just to make the point clear - is not a project in which the Commission is participating in any form.
One of the trickiest aspects is the public interest: will ratifying and applying WIPO lead to the privatisation of culture?
Adoption of the Minutes of the previous sitting
One of the people assassinated very recently in Sri Lanka was Mr Kumar Ponnambalam, who had visited the European Parliament just a few months ago.
First, any revision of the directive would have little immediate effect on existing agreements, unless the fundamental principle of respecting the autonomy of the negotiating parties no longer applies.
A child, a student or a pupil who smokes hashish in one country is dealt with in an educational way, while in another country he is treated as a criminal and locked up in the universities of crime constituted by the corrective system and the prisons.
For the time, the report grew too large when it was being debated.
(Parliament adopted the resolution)
We would be doing neither ourselves nor the citizens any favours if we were to christen the product we are proposing to deliver "EC service provision card" and not "EU service provision card" .
From this point of view we are slightly behind the times.
It is a report which tries to give direction.
I would just like to say a word about the non-military aspects of our security policy, of conflict prevention and crisis management.
The Commission has been accused of being buried under piles of paper, and so we are going to become a paperless Commission.
In my view, instead of "weitergeführt werden müssen" the wording should be "erhalten bleiben müssen" .
So with those remarks I would like to congratulate you on the programme and wish it every success.
What, then, are the values of these Socialists who feathered their electoral nest in the last century by painting the idea of greater social justice in glowing colours for the benefit of the underprivileged, and who today are nothing more than the party of protected civil servants, full-time union officials and state capitalism?
We do need to rethink many aspects of current Community policy if the important and difficult project of enlargement is to be a success. We also need 'distinctive strategic partnerships' with our neighbours to the south and east in order to achieve stability and peace.
The studies were sent to the committee and to the MEPs who requested them, in September 1999 and are, in any case, still available.
(The Minutes were approved)
I would like to ask the Vice-President if she is in a position to tell us today what the state of play is with regard to the efforts towards harmonisation being made by these two organisations, and whether the EU is in a position to hasten these harmonisation efforts, in accordance with principles that are as simple as possible.
That is indeed distortion of the internal market.
There is still a need to tighten up in the areas mentioned, and there is therefore good reason for continuing to work resolutely towards solving the problems concerning the lack of transparency and openness in the area of state aid.
Mr President, in accordance with Article 69 (2), I call for referral back to committee.
This seems to me to be a workable solution.
Finally, with regard to Kosovo - Mr Cohn-Bendit was right to emphasise this point - I believe that it is urgent that the European Union raise the question of the status of Kosovo.
I hope the delegation has an excellent visit to Strasbourg.
We cannot maintain a situation in which investments and the creation of jobs are less lucrative than short-term sales of foreign currency and shares.
Where I cannot commit myself is on your reference to legislative work in the social security area which, as you know, is not included in the articles of the Treaty and there is no legal basis for social security questions in the Treaty.
This is an area in which we must carry forward and intensify our work, not just by securing approval for the EU strategy for the fight against organised crime in the new millennium, but also so as to overcome the difficulties associated with the divergence of views that exists, particularly at Council level, on issues concerning the fight against organised crime.
There is no sense of regionality for the Balkans, which would include everyone without exceptions or vindictiveness.
Mr President, Commissioner, the oral question tabled by Mrs Terrón i Cusí shows that this House is taking a firm stance. Indeed, six months after the election of this new Parliament, we should now be able to send a firm political message to the people of Europe.
The OAU is doing its best to broker a peace deal there.
I should like to say that I agree with the tone which Galeote Quecedo' s speech set here.
This is repulsive most of all in social terms.
Both as an historical period and, in particular, as a political period, 10 years is a very long time.
Secondly, I do understand exactly what the honourable Member is saying about Mitrovica.
He has an onerous undertaking but he has responded quickly and effectively to the requirements of this House, as well as to the concern of consumers.
We cannot carry on as we have done up until now, that is to say dealing with each detail on its own, often only after the harm has already been done.
It is only, as stated by Mr Hernández Mollar, through unity, responsibility and firmness that El Ejido, Spain and Europe will be able to overcome these events of which we are deeply ashamed.
It was decided that the dialogue should continue, but in a more targeted and effective way, given that China has agreed with the European Union' s proposal to restructure the dialogue by means of better use of experts and to establish a closer link with the seminars.
The International Maritime Organisation has issued international rules in this connection.
That proposal will establish a duty to cooperate, and a duty on the part of the national authorities to notify Europol of cases of counterfeiting and to present any confiscated counterfeit money to the European Central Bank for identification and classification, so that effective measures can then be taken.
Which Community body will control the funding of the steering group and the monitoring committee and verify that the programme is carried out exactly and correctly?
This does not mean that we approve the entire contents, which are too vague and which leave out the main concern.
Mr President, Commissioner, today we are engaged in an important debate about the European Union' s competition policy.
What has become of it?
The operation of the previous round of programmes is also very instructive in telling us what guidelines should not be about.
It is, however, important to emphasise that the Intergovernmental Conference is and will remain a conference of the Member States.
It is with great satisfaction that I today welcome this 'happy ending' in this House, and I thank you for it.
If we take all these aspects together we have the potential of really doing something in Europe and maybe extending the tourism season by staggering holidays right across Europe.
In contrast to what the previous speaker said, I can say I am really proud that a common position was achieved during the Finnish Presidency to uphold environmental values.
And here I want to turn to an area where in my view - and this is a point also made in this debate - Parliament and the Commission must consider where to draw limits to competition.
Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union' s regional policy has, until now, not been able to interpret, in any significant way, the existing differences in our inhabitants' incomes.
In the area of environment, we are looking at ways to cooperate with Mrs Wallström; in the area of regional policy Mr Barnier is giving a lot of attention to this sector.
For this reason, and I believe that this is a challenge we are all facing, I recognise the need to develop a communication strategy which will allow us to make the real added value which the Union brings to daily life accessible and visible to the public at large - in areas which are essential for citizenship, for legality and, ultimately, for democracy itself.
But we have also learned this week that Mr Barak will not be travelling to Washington and that the negotiations cannot therefore be continued.
The IRA terrorists have not given up any of their weapons, nor have the loyalist terrorists, yet the police are being forced into a position where they will not have the power to resist the terrorist community.
In other words, this is an important facet of public health protection, which is why we believe that Article 152 should be taken as the legal base, not Article 37, as proposed by the Commission.
The Commission accepts all of the contributions of the parliamentary committee and the rapporteur, Mr Koch, which are contained in the various amendments, specifically four.
This too is a particular desire of my group.
Without a common fisheries policy there can only be lack of control, damage to the environment and an unsustainable economic activity.
Finally, the Commission's human resource policy must be modernised.
I believe we have to increase the current amount so as to move closer to levels in the United States, but that we also have to reconsider the sums insured on vessels and, therefore, the liability of shipowners, and also to hold liable those who charter ships, which is to say the owners of the cargo.
The recognition that the 60 000 strong military force will be involved in both peacemaking and peacekeeping is also appropriate.
Nowadays, taxpayers often have to subsidise industry and farming.
Firstly, we need a successful European economy.
The whole of the Union must have the same protection, a type of protection which prohibits counterfeiting, not only of currencies in circulation but also of currencies which will be in circulation.
It is precisely in the field of legal protection that the Council' s proposal leaves a great deal to be desired.
In relation to China, we should not be dissuaded from raising the issue simply because discussions on it may be blocked.
The second point is the enlargement of the Union.
Finally, the amendment tabled by the rapporteur is perfectly logical and I can, therefore, give it my wholehearted support.
I understand what you are saying.
In my own country, more than 60 per cent of Swedes save with a variety of funds.
In this respect, and because Turkey is situated on the periphery of the European Union, we should be helping it to become a more secure, peaceful and cooperative country.
And now the Erika.
It is the job of the Commission to ensure that national governments take account of their legal obligations under European law and transpose European directives.
We have an important part to play in the Community in the European Union in this regard.
Overall, I am not dissatisfied with the present common position and certainly not with the philosophy underlying that common position.
But only when each country has done its utmost to conserve its water resources, when literally everything has been done that could have been done in our own countries, only then, in my view, should it be necessary to start thinking in terms of harmonising water usage.
Former ADAPT projects range from the CORE project, which has developed new supply chains for the car industry in Bedfordshire, to projects to raise standards in small businesses in Hertfordshire in Essex.
We feel that the European Union and the Commission needs to make a strong commitment to sustainable tourism, which means having a strategy that is compatible with the environment, after the excesses of recent years when private wealth often did not correspond to high levels of employment.
European citizens will not settle for any less than a quality of life which befits them as human beings.
I would like to touch briefly on these amendments.
You can be satisfied with the progress made.
Secondly, there will obviously be timetables for the initiatives within which systematic monitoring will also have to be implemented.
What means will the Charter use to ensure that it clearly guarantees equality between the sexes?
With a view to these forthcoming negotiations, I would therefore urge Parliament to vote in favour of an ambitious position.
This has not just happened.
As such, state aid costs the government twice: first in subsidies and then in unemployment benefit.
In a debate within the Socialist Party on the Irish process, someone said: "In the end, the key to the Irish solution was that everyone involved had the following thought: does it really matter whether we are Irish or British?
Can you please do something about it?
I thank the President, Mrs Fontaine, who just yesterday expressed her opinion by refuting the implication of this House.
The KFOR forces have made, and are making, an invaluable contribution, but tanks and fire trenches cannot deal with political problems and ethnic conflicts in the longer term.
Mr President, rural development has been identified by this Parliament and the Commission as a priority policy area, and I would like to welcome here today the Commissioner responsible, Commissioner Fischler.
It is therefore good that the EU should act as a godparent to the Palestinian state.
I also highlight the issue of compensation and call for the amendment of Council Decision 90/424/EEC by specifically including ISA in its appended list of diseases, thereby enabling compensation to be paid at 50% Commission, 50% Member State.
Ten years ago, the "velvet revolution" proclaimed Havel na HRAD.
Naturally, this is only to be welcomed.
That goes for everybody at whatever level of seniority.
In this resolution, Parliament is assuming its responsibilities.
In this sense, the Commission must insist, and I should like to endorse and confirm this here, that the new Charter of Fundamental Rights become part of the Treaty and create binding, enforceable rights.
We will have the chance to scrutinise, to debate, to question.
In doing so, Madam President has breached Rule 142 that states that points of order shall take precedence over all other requests to speak.
However, by the same token, there is another Austria, the one where umpteen thousand people demonstrated against the FPÖ having any involvement in government, and who will continue to demonstrate against this government.
There are times when a crisis which started out with a military need develops so that, after a few months, a police force is needed rather than a military force. Then, in the final moments of the crisis, it is perhaps courts or bodies to create democratic institutions which a country may need more than police.
This is bound to have an impact on the ability of Malta and Cyprus to plan spending.
Commissioner, you will be aware from your presence in the last Commission why the crisis occurred.
The debate is closed.
Mr President, the situation in Mozambique is of the greatest urgency.
It has taken four years for us to be in a position to hold a summit of this kind.
In addition to destroying natural resources, this accident has had a serious impact on certain economic sectors, particularly those dependent on fisheries.
The Tampere Summit was about combating crime.
I agree with the proposals that information provided to international organisations should also be made available to the Commission.
The chemical industry and, unfortunately, the European Commission and the Council of Ministers too want to draft a separate risk analysis for each dangerous substance.
That committee was very clear about the need to abolish the centralised ex ante visa.
The expectation is that we send them a politically relevant signal that it is possible for them to join us one day, maintaining respect for their sovereignty of course.
Today, a common strategy for social protection is sadly lacking, and the current systems are, in the main, run according to the actions and unity of purpose of individual Member States.
The postal services are important.
As Mr Nielson said this morning with regard to Lomé, preferential access is only for "essentially all the products of the least-developed countries" .
Jacques Delors was accustomed to saying that the market was short-sighted and hence the political need to reduce disparities.
The fact that the public accepts such rates and does not just abandon all financial activities in a panic can be explained by overambitious expectations over future gains.
Congratulations!
We would remind you of the proposals made by the governments of Macedonia and Bosnia and Herzegovina at the time, which had non-violent liberalisation and a non-violent separation from the Yugoslav federal structure in view.
The Commission will contact the relevant national authorities to check this.
The aim was not to draw conclusions - it was impossible to draw any - but the debate was certainly very encouraging.
Unless it is restored in its original form by Parliament, accepting the amendments retabled by the Socialist Group, I must take the unusual but inevitable course of asking my Socialist colleagues and indeed anybody who believes that Parliament should speak a meaningful language to vote against the report that bears my name but that is no longer mine either in thinking or in conscience.
With all due respect for the principle of competition, competition is not, however, an end in itself.
It will most certainly be necessary, we say, because of the technological developments that simplify this transfer and thereby make it more profitable, to determine the further gradual and controlled liberalisation by setting weight and price limits.
Mr President, I think I also speak for the Committee on Constitutional Affairs that I chair, in expressing my appreciation of this Commission initiative.
Mr High Representative, you have spoken to us of the progress made to date in relation to the decisions taken at Helsinki.
And once again I should like to point out in this House, in view of my own experience prior to Amsterdam, that whatever the ambiguity or weakness of the status acknowledged to the two representatives of the European Parliament, prior to Amsterdam, the quality of what Mrs Guigou and Mr Brok said counted for a lot in these negotiations.
Vote in favour of environmental and consumer protection and for innovation in the car and recycling industry!
These issues were fundamental in that report and they should be fundamental in any forthcoming directive.
However, I do wonder about the wisdom of this.
And, to that end, I am not clear as to the extent to which we have progressed on developing heavy lift capacity to be able to get these 60 000 troops into operation, or what progress we have made on autonomous intelligence capacity, particularly given the American statements that they are not giving intelligence to Europeans until they can deal with security.
We are to get the documents that are sent to them.
ETA must be condemned. However, those who support and express understanding for these attacks must also be condemned.
This revised Community framework would have three core elements: operational criteria set up at Community level, Community control guidelines, and enhanced administrative cooperation in the development and operation of control.
It is essential that the Commission should have the benefit of Parliament's contribution to the shaping of what would be a key component of raising consumer health protection to a new plane and thereby restoring consumer confidence in the European Union's food safety regime.
This would mean moving away from the situation of extreme poverty in which more than a third of the world' s population lives, and moving away from the extremely poor living conditions suffered by over a billion people. This is an extraordinary state of affairs, which certainly means that if this objective is to be achieved the international community as a whole will have to participate and intervene actively.
The citizens demand rapid and open access to the institutions and call for EU provisions to be comprehensible to them.
This would allow Member States great flexibility to tailor development cooperation to their own particular needs.
And, finally, the matter of the relationship between TRIPs and WIPO must be clarified. Regarding this, too, there has been only silence by way of a response from the Commission.
The Commission ought - and I have also amended this deadline to 31 May 2000 - to propose a legislative act on the establishment of an independent body which has institutional links with the Commission, for coordinating and supervising the legal investigative body OLAF.
Well, today, the same Minister of European Affairs who drew up the Treaty of Amsterdam, who has, in the meantime, become a European Commissioner, Mr Barnier, proposes to decide, at the forthcoming IGC, that the Council will operate in these areas by majority decision.
