Although there are a few isolated reports in the literature suggesting that sugar beet pollen is highly antigenic, hypersensitivity to components of sugar beet is not a common disease.
We report a 29-year-old man with a history of atopic dermatitis who developed both contact dermatitis and allergic rhinitis from sugar beet pollen through his job in a seed nursery.
Establishing nursing science at German universities has become more and more consolidated.
At the beginning of this establishment there was an evident backlog especially compared to angloamerican and scandinavian countries.
Today - 1997 - more than 40 nursing science courses exist at German high schools and universities.
Active glucocorticoids (GCS), such as cortisol or corticosterone, are a prerequisite for the induction of surfactant synthesis in the fetal lung.
In fetal serum, biologically inactive metabolites (cortisone or 11-dehydrocorticosterone) outweigh the active forms.
In this study we demonstrate with organoid cultures of fetal rat lungs that the reductive side of 11-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (11-HSD) regulates the intracellular activation of GCS.
The inhibition of 11-HSD by the licorice extract glycyrrhetinic acid completely inhibits this central metabolism.
On the other hand, GCS induce the reductive activity of 11-HSD and, therefore, they increase their own activation by positive feedback.
In a community sample of 394 eldery aged 61 years and older from East and West Germany, diseases, contacts with general practitioners and specialists, the use of medicine, attitudes regarding health and illness, the subjective health, psychic problems, social support, social integration, social burden, and socio-demographic variables were assessed.
Based on these data the determinants for the contact of physicians and the use of medicine were analyzed.
The results confirmed the frequency of multimorbidity in the elderly; on average we found three different diseases at the same time for each person.
In nearly 10% of the sample we found seven diagnoses existing at the same time.
88% had contact with a general practitioner at least once a year, 97% had contact either with a general practitioner or with a specialist once a year.
55.8% took at least one medicine each day.
The number of diseases existing at the same time was the most determining variable for the contact of physicians and the use of medicine.
Furthermore, the elderly had more contact with physicians and took more medicine if they thought they were susceptible to diseases in a high degree, and if they rated their own health as poor.
Fewer contacts with physicians and a lower use of medicine were found in those elderly that rated health behavior as little useful, that had low control beliefs regarding their own health, and that experienced only a low degree of health-related limitations in their everyday life.
Furthermore, we found a higher use of medicine if there was little social support.
There were no significant age-related or sex-related differences regarding the contact of practitioners or the use of medicine.
Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD: Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis) are chronic inflammatory and frequently relapsing diseases of the gut that ultimately lead to destruction of the intestinal tissue.
Recent evidence suggests that a pathologic activation of the mucosal immune system in response to antigens is a key factor in the pathogenesis of IBD.
Furthermore, changes in cell migration and cytokine production appear to contribute to the perpetuation of IBD and the postoperative recurrence of Crohn's disease.
Based on recent advances in our understanding of the pathogenesis of IBD, several new therapeutic strategies are currently being tested in clinical practice, including recombinant anti-inflammatory cytokines (IFN-, IL-10, IL-11) and inhibitors of cell adhesion molecules (ICAM), proinflammatory cytokines (TNF, IL-12) and their receptors (TNF, IL-6R).
Dysregulation of apoptosis may play a major role in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
A defective clearance of apoptotic cells or inappropriately high rates of apoptosis may lead to a pathologic accumulation of abnormal cell material with a secondary autoimmune response.
Experimental findings in apoptotic keratinocytes and C1q knock-out mice suggest an important role of C1q in the clearance of apoptotic cell material.
In addition, there are several links between C1q and SLE: Most the patients with C1q deficiency develop a SLE-like syndrome.
SLE itself often causes secondary C1q deficiency and autoantibodies to C1q are detected in almost all patients with active lupus nephritis.
These observations suggest a central role of C1q in apoptosis and in the pathogenesis of SLE.
Objective: The aim of this study was to examine the causes and accident mechanisms that lead to injuries in infancy involving buggies and prams in order to establish strategies for accident prevention.
The discussion about the implementation of telemedicine and teleresourcing and its consequences has been under way for some time now.
The rate at which telemedical applications are being developed, leaves little time for consideration of the economic, scientific and social aspects.
There is a need for integration of all the existing fragments into one coherent telemedical concept.
Different aspects of telemedical concepts are discussed.
A 34-year-old woman who was separated from her husband, was killed by him by strangulation and several stab wounds in the chest.
The post-mortem examination was carried out approximately 5 h after death.
At the place of discovery one swab of her right and one of her left neck side were taken.
Additionally, a swab was taken out from the front side of the collar of her polo-neck pullover.
It was obvious that the skin of the neck below the larynx showed a fabric pattern leading to the assumption that the collar was temporarily pressed between the hands of the suspect and the neck of the victim.
DNA typing (short tandem repeat-PCR) of these swabs led to the detection of mixed patterns for the swabs of the neck and the collar which matched the patterns of the victim and the suspect.
A prospective randomized clinical trial was performed to evaluate the use of self-reinforced absorbable composites (Biofix) in the fixation of ankle fractures.
The aim of this study was to demonstrate that fixation with Biofix rods and screws is as good as the standard A. O. fixation.
The benefits of Biofix rods and screws are: a reduction in costs since no secondary operation is needed, prevention of stress-shielding and thereby diminishing the risk of bone porosity.
Patients aged between 16 and 75 years old with closed, non-comminuted fractures of the lateral and/or medial malleolus and dislocation of the fracture fragments greater thean 2 mm were included in the study.
22 patients were treated with Biofix rods and screws and the control group of 19 patients with a standard technique.
After 3, 6 and 12 months, rontgenograms were taken.
At the same time functional results were evaluated following the criteria of Olerud and Molander.
Two patients were withdrawn from the trial for non-medical reasons.
22 patients (12 from the Biofix group, 10 from the AO group) operated two or more years ago were contacted to see if any complications had occured since they were last seen.
In 4 cases a Biofix screw broke down just beneath the head during insertion.
This did not result in an insufficient fixation of the fracture.
There were no early post-operative complications.
The functional and rontgenological results in both groups were equal.
In three cases a sterile sinus developed at the site of screw insertion.
Biofix rods and screws, made of polylactic acid, are a good alternative for the fixation of fractures of the ankle.
The use of resorbable fracture fixation material has the advantage that a second operation to remove osteosynthesis material is not necessary.
The long term results are good.
There is, however, a possibility of development of tissue reaction to the resorbable material.
In current textbooks of dermatology, lichen amyloidosus is said to be a papular, intensely pruritic type of amyloidosis of unknown aetiology.
When this concept was developed, there was no way of discriminating between the different types of amyloid.
It is now known that amyloid in lichen amyloidosus is not derived from immunoglobulins or serum proteins, as it is in systemic amyloidoses, but from keratin peptides of necrotic keratinocytes.
Even several years ago, chronic scratching was invoked as a possible cause of damage to keratinocytes in lichen amyloidosus.
In support of this hypothesis, four cases are presented.
Apart from amyloid in the papillary layer, all biopsy specimens revealed histopathological signs of chronic scratching (epithelial hyperplasia with hypergranulosis and compact orthokeratosis, coarse collagen in vertical streaks in the stratum papillare), such as are also found in prurigo nodularis and lichen simplex chronicus.
Lichen amyloidosus is considered to be a variant of these conditions.
Just as in prurigo nodularis and lichen simplex chronicus, pruritus seems to be the cause and not a symptom of the papular skin lesions.
Consequently, treatment of lichen amyloidosus should not be directed at removing amyloid, but at improving the pruritus.
Ulcers in chronic venous insufficiency, especially in postthrombotic syndrome, are often resistant to compression therapy.
They can be treated effectively by the dermatologic surgeon with a fairly simple operative procedure.
The removal of the ulcer together with the extensive lipodermatosclerosis by Humby knife (shave-therapy) and immediate grafting with a meshed split skin graft - possibly in combination with ligation of insufficient perforator veins - yields very good success rates.
The results in 13 patients (18 legs) with an average follow up period of 11 months (up to 20 months) are reported.
The literature from 1990-1997 and 3 personal cases are reviewed to give an update on findings and current therapy for adder bites.
Bites of the adder (Vipera berus) are rare.
Symptomatic treatment usually leads to complete restitution, death due to adder bite is rare.
The main venom effect is the development of - sometimes severe - edema, hemolysis and disseminated coagulopathy, very occasionally followed by lethal renal failure.
Significant intoxication is very unlikely if 2-3 h after the incident, no signs of intoxication can be found.
Background: The use of high-tech communication is undoubtedly growing and has become established in almost all sciences and research fields.
This article surveys the possibilities for scientific data-exchange via the Internet, the world's largest computer network.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) are known to exhibit far less cardiac side effects than tricyclic antidepressants.
We report three cases in which the SSRI, paroxetine, induced clinically relevant ECG changes in patients with high risk profile.
In two cases an increase in QTc time was observed, severe bradycardia was also observed twice.
Objective: Cultural detection of Bordetella pertussis is not very helpful in the management of patients with whooping cough, since culture takes three to five days until results are available, and only about 30-60% of patients may be detected by this method.
In order to improve the laboratory diagnosis of whooping cough, different protocols for the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were developed.
With the introduction of each new technique for registering eye movements, the question arises concerning whether these provide a reliable and accurate alternative for the  diagnosis of labyrinthine dysfunction when compared to the most commonly used electro-oculographic technique.
To answer this question we compared mean slow-phase velocity (SPV) using three different recording techniques: electro-oculography (EOG), video-oculography (VOG) and infra-red oculography (IROG) during four different types of examinations.
The examinations were the eye target tracking test (ETT), horizontal and vertical optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) tests and the rotating chair test of the horizontal vestibulo-ocular reflex (HVOR).
For the ETT tests the VOG provided consistently higher mean SPV values with low variance, presumably because of the accuracy and stability of the calibration.
For the horizontal OKN and VOR rotating chair tests no significant differences were found between the mean SPV obtained with the different recording techniques, although the IROG recordings were associated with a larger variance.
Vertical OKN mean SPV was consistently lower with IROG and VOG techniques presumably because of non-linearities and resolution limitations inherent in these techniques.
These results indicate that the EOG technique despite its disadvantages of noise, time to apply and variability of calibration still provides an inexpensive, reliable and accurate means of measuring slow-phase eye movements.
Aim: The aim of this study was to investigate whether the plasma levels of the circulating adhesion molecules sICAM-1 and sE-selectin could serve as early predictors of developing sepsis and its severity.
Problem: The data model given in the  DICOM standard is examined unter the aspect of system integration.
Semantic properties of the IODs (information object definitions) and their relationships are investigated.
Thoracic disc herniation is rare.
Pain is the most common initial symptom, followed by sensory disturbances and motor involvement.
By the time of diagnosis, 90% of the patient have signs of spinal cord compression.
A 42-year-old woman was operated on because of shoulder pain.
During her stay in hospital, the patient first demonstrated uncharacteristic pain and after 2weeks an incomplete paraplegia caused by herniation of the T10/11 disc.
Degenerative changes have been considered to be a cause for spontaneous quadriceps tendon rupture.
Aim of this study is to investigate the microvasculature of the quadriceps tendon by injection techniques and immunohistochemical methods (antibodies against laminin) with regard to the pathogenesis of tendon degeneration.
The blood supply of the quadriceps tendon arises from descending branches of the lateral circumflex femoral artery, by branches of the descending geniculate artery and by branches of the medial and lateral superior geniculate arteries.
Blood vessels penetrate the tendon from the surrounding connective tissue and anastomose with a longitudinally orientated intraligamentous network.
Compared to the surrounding synovial layer, the amount of vessels in the tendon substance is greatly reduced.
The distribution of blood vessels within the quadriceps tendon is not homogenous.
The anterior or superficial part of the tendon has a complete vascular network that extends from the musculo-tendinous junction to the patella.
Within the deep portion of the quadriceps tendon there is an oval shaped avascular area which measures app.
30 mm in length and app.
Within this area the immunohistochemical proof of laminin is negative.
An explanation for the absence of blood vessels may be compressive stress caused by the patellar groove which serves as hypomochlion for the quadriceps tendon when the knee is flexed.
The occurrence of an avascular zone within the deep layer of the tendon that is directed to the joint cavity may explain the frequency of degenerative changes in this region.
When looking for the possible cause of distortions in values measured for the determination of breath ethanol concentration (BEC) in artificially respirated patients, consideration must be given to the humidity and temperature of the gas examined.
In the present study, the effects of humidified and warmed and of dry and cold air on the accuracy of a newly developed BEC measuring device, as compared to a reference model and to a conventional system, were examined in a lung model.
Total or partial relapses after conventional surgical advancement of the maxilla following Le Fort I osteotomy in CLP patients are frequent and major complications.
The aim of this investigation was to find out whether the technique of distraction osteogenesis in these patients shows more stability and whether maxillary distraction is able to replace conventional advancement.
Maxillary distraction was performed in 12 patients.
In two cases, a Delaire mask was used to bring the maxilla forward, ten patients were treated with the extraoral distraction device designed by Polley.
In all patients, planned advancement of the maxilla could be achieved; one partial relapse occurred.
The results indicate that distraction osteogenesis offers the possibility of advancement of the maxilla with the required stability.
The technique presents a major improvement which is achieved with a relatively minor surgical procedure.
We report a rare case of primary primitive neuroectodermal tumour of the bladder in an adult.
A huge tumour with extensions into pelvic and retroperitoneal tissue was found radiologically in a 62-year-old man.
The patient did not complain about remarkable clinical symptoms until 4 days before admission to hospital.
Histology of diagnostic transurethral tumour resection showed a small round-cell tumour with focal necrosis and scattered Homer-Wright rosettes.
Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that tumour cells stained positively with O13, a monoclonal antibody which recognizes the membrane glycoprotein p30/32MIC2.
Focally, tumour cells stained positively for vimentin, NSE, S-100 protein and synaptophysin.
The patient died 3 weeks later because of fulminant pulmonary embolism and autopsy revealed a huge, partly exophytic but mainly endophytic tumour of the bladder with extensions into the rectum and retroperitoneal tissue.
The differential diagnosis of small round-cell tumours in this location is discussed.
Lesions of the acetabular labrum should be treated by correcting the causes.
In a steep acetabulum where the femoral head brings the acetabular labrum under tension and traction, the acetabulum should be rotated by triple pelvic osteotomy to slightly overcorrected acetabular measurements.
Severely diminished acetabular and femoral anteversion can also lead to tears and impingement of the labrum.
Then rotation of the femoral neck and/or rotations of the acetabulum by triple osteotomy to 15-20  ° of anteversion are indicated.
Our triple osteotomy technique differs from that of others mainly in the ischial osteotomy.
It is performed from the posterior approach between the sciatic notch next to the ischial spine and the obturator foramen and is directed 20-30  ° anteriorly from the frontal (coronal) plane.
The osteotomies therefore are placed close enough to the acetabulum to allow free rotation, but they do not interfere with the circulation of the acetabulum, and the ligaments between the sacrum and ischium are left in normal tension.
Our normal values of the acetabular position were tested by correlating the measurements with the absence of pain.
The optimum is reached with a CE angle and a VCA angle of 30-35  °, an angle of the weight-bearing zone of +5 to -5  ° and a migration index of 10-15 %.
Overcorrections again caused pain and should be avoided.
Diminished anteversion of femur and acetabulum towards 0  ° also caused pain and should be corrected by triple and femoral osteotomy to 15-20  ° of anteversion.
In earlier follow-ups of 216 hips 5-10 years postoperatively, 82.3 % of the joints showed no change in the degree of osteoarthrosis.
Survival rate curves regarding the absence of pain demonstrated that pain was experienced again when joints were corrected insufficiently or overcorrected, while in good corrections the joints were free of pain in about 75 %.
Background: Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy is associated with point mutations in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) that appear to be pathogenic for this disease.
These mutations affect nucleotide positions 3460, 11 778 and 14 484.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II (HIT type II) is an immunoglobulin-mediated, drug-induced side effect for heparin-treated patients with thromboembolic complications.
With an incidence of 1-3 %, mortality of 20 % it and permanent disability for another 20 % is a clinically relevant disorder.
With heparin treatment or prophylaxis frequent platelet count monitoring is necessary.
With HIT type II the thrombocytopenia is often a harbinger of thromboembolic complications in the venous or arterial system.
If HIT type II is suspected, further heparin exposure is to be stopped immediately and another anticoagulant therapy should be started.
The two anticoagulant options in Germany are discussed.
At the same time the diagnosis should be confirmed by laboratory testing, including testing for cross-reactivity with danaparoid.
Further therapy depends on the symptoms.
In the case of clinical relevance of this disorder we should think about prophylaxis: strict indications for perioperative prophylaxis only use of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) for routine prophylaxis, use of LMWH for thrombosis treatment and early change to cumarine.
A patented low-temperature polymerization method for methylmethacrylate (MMA) infiltrated bone marrow biopsies is described: it has been developed from our previous MMA technique and is a patented procedure.
Differences from the previous method are (1) removal of stabilizer from the MMA monomer before its application, (2) the use of a different starter, (3) avoidance of O2 influence during polymerization by means of vacuum exchange with N2, and (4) polymerisation in a water bath to draw off residual heat.
After this procedure, all immunohistochemical reactions are possible provided that the previous fixation is adequate.
The effects of different fixatives are reviewed briefly without detailed analysis.
Technically, this plastic embedding can be performed at least as rapidly as the classic paraffin embedding after decalcification.
The advantages over the latter method are: (1) the cells can be better differentiated because semi-thin sections can be made; (2) the immunoreactions can also be performed on the basis of semi-thin sections, which means they can be interpreted more easily; (3) morphometric analyses yield more reliable results because of the constant thickness of sections; (4) osteological examination of bone trabeculae, especially the search for mineralisation deficiencies, is possible; (5) the plastic embedding procedure is less dependent on individual instabilities in the quality of performance of the staff members involved.
Furthermore, it is worth mentioning that the costs for additional equipment necessary remain below DM 100,000 including an excellent microtome.
The routine use of succinylcholine for endotracheal intubation is being increasingly questioned.
Initial studies have suggested that a combination of propofol and alfentanil without a muscle relaxant can provide good intubating conditions.
However, most of these initial studies either did not have a double-blind design or did not include a control group with muscle relaxants.
In this study, intubation conditions using fentanyl/propofol without a muscle relaxant were compared with the combinations of fentanyl/propofol/succinylcholine and sodium thiopental/succinylcholine.
Nosocomial pneumonia is still a common problem, especially in intubated and mechanically ventilated patients.
The endotracheal tube contributes substantially to the pathogenesis of pneumonia in these patients, because it facilitates microaspiration and impairs host defense.
Common nosocomial pathogens like Pseudomonas aeruginosa are known to produce exopolysaccharides and generate a complex biofilm structure, which allows adhesion to abiotic surfaces and protection against antibiotic action.
Multiple studies have identified bacterial biofilm on the inner lumen of endotracheal tubes, which represents a permanent source of infectious material.
Endotracheal tubes, removed from patients with ventilator-associated pneumonia, are covered more frequently with biofilm than those of uninfected controls.
It remains unclear whether this represents a source of infection or contamination.
Bacterial biofilm, however, may play an important role in recurrent pulmonary infections of the intubated and mechanically ventilated patient.
Computer-guided robot-assisted surgery in cementless total hip replacement requires exact preoperative planning at the 3D workstation Orthodoc.
Only the Robodoc procedure allows the precise execution of the preoperative plan in surgery.
Robot-assisted surgery has been undergoing clinical evaluation at the Berufsgenossenschaftliche Unfallklinik, Frankfurt, since November 1994.
In all 465 patients, the preoperative plan was successfully carried out intraoperatively.
The high precision in reaming, leading to a superb bone implant contact, guarentees absolute initial stability and is likely to promote primary healing between implant and bone.
The common and often published incidence of varus or valgus malpositioning and any fractures or fissures could be avoided through the use of Robodoc.
Although immediate full-weight bearing was strongly recommended to the patients, no implant subsidence was seen in the regular follow-up X ray studies.
In this study we describe 22 cases of retrograde ureteral stent placement in pregnant women with therapy-resistant flank pain due to hydronephrosis.
Eleven were primiparous and one patient expected twins.
Eight of 22 patients presented symptoms of pyelonephritis.
In 21 cases the hydronephrosis was located on the right and in 4 cases it was bilateral.
Maximal lower calix diameter was 12 mm (range 9-22 mm).
With the exception of two cases, sonographically controlled stent placement was performed under local anesthesia without sedation.
All patients were painfree within 6 days and were given prophylactic low dosis of antibiotic until the day of delivery.
Renal function remained within the normal limits.
Double-J stent displacement occured in 3 patients - of which one underwent nephrostomy.
Postnatal examination demonstrated urolithiasis in 4 of 19 patients.
This study provides evidence for effectiveness of retrograde ureteral Double-J stent placement as a therapeutic option in cases of severe symptomatic hydronephrosis during pregnancy with a low morbidity rate.
Between 1981 and 1994 at the Bergmannsheil Ruhr University Hospital in Bochum, Germany, we treated 145 patients with femoral diaphyseal nonunions following initial operative treatment.
Of these patients, 138 received this initial operative treatment at an outside institution.
The primary reconstructions for the fractures utilized plates in 112 cases, reamed nails in 24 cases and external fixators in 9 cases.
The average age of the patients was 35 years and the mean time from the initial operative treatment was 2 years.
Twenty-seven patients (19 %) presented with a hypertrophic nonunion and 118 (81 %) with an atrophic nonunion.
There was a significant correlation between primary "classic" plating and development of an atrophic nonunion (2-test: P < 0.01).
We observed 34 wound infections (23 %) with no significant correlation to the type of primary osteosynthesis.
We determined that 73 of the pseudarthroses were due to improper osteosynthesis techniques.
Of these cases, 41 % involved the use of plates, 83 % involved the use of reamed nails, and 78 % involved the use of external fixators.
Fracture location near the diaphyseal-metaphyseal junctions was common in this problematic group.
Ninety-two percent of all plates led to atrophic nonunions.
There were 21 open fractures and of these 90 % (n = 19) developed an atrophic pseudarthrosis and 29 % (n = 6) developed a wound infection.
Fifty-seven (39 %) of all patients had additional injuries, but we found that did not increase the risk of disturbed bone healing.
Our revision operations focused on the elimination of wound infections, refreshment of bone healing, and improvement in fragment stability.
Only 28 % of all "classic" plates and 11 % of all external fixators were changed to an intramedullary implant at the time of the first revision surgery.
Hypertrophic nonunions required a mean of 1.3 revision operations to achieve bone healing whereas a mean of 2 revision operations were necessary to fuse atrophic bone ends (P < 0.05).
In cases of diaphyseal pseudarthrosis healing time was not affected by the type of osteosynthesis used for primary reconstructions.
Since lack of fracture healing can often already be observed directly from postoperative X-rays, we recommend that revision procedures be performed early.
The prolonged length of time to care for femoral nonunions underlines the importance of appropriate primary fracture treatment.
That takes into consideration both the biomechanical and the biological aspects of bone healing.
Background: In a prospective trial (October 1996 - April 1998) the effect of octreotide and tamoxifen on the recurrence of pancreatic carcinoma after R0 resection was evaluated.
Methods: Patients with a local recurrence after curative resection of ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreas were treated with 100 µg of octreotide three times a day and tamoxifen 20 mg once daily.
The median survival time, quality of life (EORTC-QLQ-30) and side effects of the octreotide-tamoxifen group were compared with a historic cohort (n = 14) of patients treated in our department (9/95-9/96) according to the "best supportive care" concept.
Results: Recurrences were diagnosed after R0 resection in a mean time of 13  +/-  6.8 months.
Patients treated with octreotide and tamoxifen had a significantly (P < 0.05) longer median survival time (7 months; range: 3-12) vs 3.5 months; range: 1.5-5).
The octreotide-tamoxifen group suffered less from lack of appetite, nausea, fatigue, and pain and needed fewer analgesies.
The only side effect of the octreotide-tamoxifen therapy was moderate diarrhoe in 2 patients at the beginning of the therapy.
Conclusion: Since combined therapy with octreotide and tamoxifen can be administered comfortably for outpatient treatment, this seems to represent progress in the palliative therapy of pancreatic cancer.
Objective: To study the influence of dopexamine on pulmonary shunt and hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction during major thoracic surgery with one-lung ventilation (OLV).
Design: Prospective, randomised, placebo-controlled study.
Patients: Twenty adult patients undergoing elective pulmonary resection.
Anaesthesia: General anaesthesia was performed using propofol, fentanyl, N2O and vecuronium.Volume-controlled ventilation was performed to maintain normocapnia over the whole investigation period.
During OLV, the tidal volume was reduced and the respiratory rate was increased to avoid a peak airway pressure exceeding 40 cm H2O.
Furthermore the FiO2 was increased to 1,0 and the external PEEP was removed during OLV.
Interventions: The patients received either dopexamine at 2 µg/kg/min (group A, n=10) or 0,9% saline as control (group B, n=10) after assessing the baseline values.
Measurement and results: The following cardiorespiratory variables were recorded: Heart rate, mean arterial pressure and mean pulmonary arterial pressure.
Cardiac output was measured by thermodilution using a continuous cardiac output thermodilution catheter.
Arterial and mixed venous blood gas analysis were measured from simultaneously drawn samples.
Cardiac index (CI), systemic vascular resistance index, pulmonary vascular resistance index, oxygen delivery index (DO2I), oxygen consumption index and the venous admixture were calculated using standard formula.
Furthermore, pressure-flow-curves were constructed to analyse flow independent changes in the pulmonary vascular resistance.
Data were recorded at the following times: After induction of anaesthesia in stable haemodynamics during two-lung ventilation (baseline values, T0), intraoperatively during one-lung ventilation (T1) and postoperatively after re-establishing two-lung ventilation (T2).
Patients characteristics, data from the preoperative lung function testing and surgical procedures did not differ significantly between the groups.
CI increased in the dopexamine group from 2,5 +/- 1,2 l - min-1 - m-2 (T0) to 3,6 +/- 0,9 l - min-1 - m-2 (T1) and 4,0 +/- 1,3 l - min-1 -  m-2 (T2).
The course of the intrapulmonary right-to-left shunting did not differ between the groups.
In the dopexamine-treated group the DO2I increased from 430 +/- 143 ml - min - m-2 (T0) to 652 +/- 255 ml - min - m-2 (T1) and 653 +/- 207 ml - min - m-2 (T2).
Regarding the pressure-flow-curves there was no difference during OLV between the two groups indicating no major blocking effect of dopexamine on hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction.
Conclusion: It is concluded that dopexamine can be used to improve haemodynamics and oxygen delivery during thoracic surgery without increasing venous admixture during one-lung ventilation.
Functional cine MRI of the pelvic floor is a yet another modality in addition to various radiological fluoroscopic techniques.
This article describes our own method in view of the recent literatur and provides morphometric reference values.
Background: The influence of cyanosis, and cardiac index in children with cyanotic heart disease on their growth velocity.
Regular examinations of prostitutes may reduce the incidence of sexually transmitted diseases in this high risk group.
Therefore since April 1988 regular mandatory examinations have been offered by the regional health office in cooperation with the Department of Dermatology of the Ruhr-University of Bochum.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the acceptance and efficiency of such an examination.
The study was based on anonymous questionnaires.
Mean age of the 80 prostitutes was 31.4; 67 of then were born in Germany.
78 of the women always used condoms, while 71 thought that condoms prevent STDs.
Three women suffered from a STD in the last 12 months.
The majority the women (75 from this 80 prostitutes) did not perceive the examination as discrimination, while 71 felt the examinations were of high quality.
These results indicate that regular mandatory examinations should be part of health prevention care of prostitutes and that they are well accepted and tolerated by these women.
Atrial fibrillation and related arrhythmias are common after cardiac surgery.
As more and more elderly patients are operated on for cardiac diseases, the interest in this arrhythmia is growing again.
There are some unresolved problems of this complication.
Reevaluation of atrial fibrillation after cardiac surgery by review of recent literature.
Usually postsurgical atrial fibrillation is transient, self-limiting, and benign.
Nevertheless, among patients affected by this arrhythmia, morbidity, mortality and costs by hospital stay are higher than without this complication.
In addition, postsurgical atrial fibrillation can increase morbidity and mortality by itself.
Today, general recommendations for prevention of atrial fibrillation following surgery do not exist but may be developed in the future.
According to the clinical course, therapy has to consider ventricular rate control, prevention of thromboembolic events, and rhythm control.
Usually therapy is restricted to the postoperative time.
Atrial fibrillation after cardiothoracic surgery has to be respected in order to minimize overall complication rate.
The influence of aspirin treatment on haemostasis is still under debate.
There are doubts in emergency operations, especially in transplant patients, concerning dosage and change in medication.
Our results are based on an analysis of the therapeutic approaches in German transplantation centres.
The question of transplant suitability, dosage and haemostatic effects are discussed with respect to the literature.
Some 92.11 % of the transplantation centres perform the operation even though the patient has been treated with aspirin.
In these cases an increased bleeding tendency is tolerated and observed in 34.2 % of the centres.
An increased mortality has not been reported.
Most of the transplantation centres accept a dosage of 100 mg aspirin daily.
Only 7.89 % of the transplantation centres refuse to operate on aspirin-treated patients.
Correctly indicated aspirin treatment (for cardiac arrhythmia, embolism, or thrombosis, for example) does not contraindicate renal transplantation (daily dosage up to 100 mg).
In elective surgery, however, a preoperative change in medication is recommended, e. g., the heparin instead of aspirin.
Full-thickness defects of the thoracic wall following tumor resection, irradiation damage or secondary wound healing in thoracic surgery require early interdisciplinary cooperation to achieve patient-specific treatment modalities.
Plastic surgical differential therapy allowing for sufficient soft tissue coverage, stabilisation of the thoracic wall and space filling in intrathoracic cavities, is presented and critically discussed.
Incomplete anaesthesia is a major clinical problem both in single spinal and in single epidural anaesthesia.
The clinical efficacy of epidural anaesthesia with augmentation (aEA) and combined epidural and spinal anesthesia (CSE) for cesarean section was investigated in a prospective randomized study on 45 patients.
This retrospective study presents the results of 41 patients with a lateral clavicle fracture eight years after the treatment at the Staatliche Orthopädische Klinik of the LMU München in the time between 31.10.1979 and 31.10.1994.
It could be shown that the lateral clavicle fractures, due to their variety, hold a special position among the clavicle fractures and thus need a differanciated therapeutic procedure.
Among the operation methods the K-wire stabilisaton with cerclage was the most often chosen operation technique i.e.
The K-wire without cerclage was used in two cases.
Twelfe fractures were treated with AO-plate-osteosynthesis.
Three fractures had to be treated by resection, as they produced two pseudarthrosis and one serious AC-arthrosis during the conservative therapy.
92,7% of the subjective results of the 41 checked up patients were good and very good.
The clinical follow-up of 36 and the radiological follow-up of 33 patients revealed in 97% a good and very good outcome in the Boenisch-Score.
Insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and multiple sclerosis are thought to stem from autoimmunological processes.
We describe a 14 year old female adolescent, in whom both diseases manifested almost at the same time.
A prospective long-term follow-up study in patients who had had surgical therapy for renal hyperparathyroidism was launched to investigate the results of surgical treatment and to evaluate possible correlations between preoperative laboratory values and the course of the symptoms.
From August 1987 to December 1995, 79 patients underwent surgery for renal hyperparathyroidism.
It was the first neck exploration for 72 patients.
Total parathyroidectomy with autotransplantation to a forearm was our preferred procedure (n = 67).
The postoperative course of all patients is known.
We carried out one to nine reexaminations (median 4) in 74 of 79 patients.
The follow-up period ranged from 1 month to 5 years with a median of 18 months.
After the operation transient hypocalcaemia occurred in 84.8 % of patients.
Postoperative hypocalcaemia correlated negatively with the preoperative levels of alkaline phosphatase and intact parathyroid hormone.
Within the first month after surgery 60 % of the preoperatively affected patients completely recovered from pruritus, whereas the skeletal syndrome took longer to disappear.
One year after surgery 75 % of the patients with pruritus and 79 % of those with skeletal syndrome had became asymptomatic.
After total parathyroidectomy with autotransplantation, patients with preoperatively elevated concentrations of alkaline phosphatase ( > 200 U/l) experienced faster relief from joint pain than patients with preoperatively normal concentrations (P = 0.0297).
To date 4.5 % of the patients developed recurrent hyperparathyroidism after total parathyroidectomy with autotransplantation.
Morbidity of surgery for renal hyperparathyroidism is influenced by patients' risk factors.
Postoperative hypocalcaemia correlates negatively with the grade of renal osteopathy at the time of operation.
Preoperative concentrations of alkaline phosphatase influence the rapidity of the relief from joint pain.
Coronary artery stenosis with need for therapy is rarely seen in childhood.
A 15-year-old girl with hypercholesterinaemia type II a was undergoing lipid aphereses therapy (once or twice a week) since she was 6 years old.
Single stage urthroplasty with an onlay patch graft of penile skin or buccal mucosa is an effective treatment for patients with complex anterior urethral stricture disease.
Using buccal mucosa, operative time is substantially reduced by using a two-team approach in which one team harvests the graft from the mouth while a perineal team simultaneously exposes and calibrates the stricture.
Excellent results can be expected using grafts urethral substitution in men with refractory bulbar strictures.
Focal areas of severe stenosis may be excised from the graft bed.
For patients with long or dense strictures, grafts may easily be combined with other tissue transfer techniques.
Background: As the slit-lamp technique is an restrictive method for the in-vivo examination and documentation of the multi-layer structure and the dynamics of the tear film and the cornea, e. g. during wound-healing processes, our aim was to find out whether it is possible to change the confocal laser scanning ophthalmoscope (CLSO; Zeiss) into a high-resolution confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM) for the visualization of the anterior segments of the eye and the tear film by adapting a special objective system.
In order to gain information concerning the function of such a cornea microscope we examined selected patients with erosion or pterygium before and after operation and subsequent phototherapeutic keratectomy (PTK), as well as some in-vitro corneal surfaces after photorefractive keratectomy (PRK).
From 3 years' experience with nearly 100 transinguinal preperitoneal mesh prosthesis (TIPP) repairs for recurrent inguinal hernia the indication, anesthesia, modification of the technique, and results are reported.
After intraoperative classification of the hernia, the TIPP repair is indicated especially in large defects of the posterior wall (L/M III).
The procedure is easily performed under local anesthesia.
During 52 local TIPP repairs, conversion of anesthesia was never necessary.
Important technical details include the requirement for a sufficient size of mesh (10 cm x 15 cm) and a certain caudal and cranial fixation of the prosthesis using at least three interrupted stitches for each.
Apart from an increased number of seromas (12 %) in the early postoperative period, the results of the TIPP are comparable with those obtained after Shouldice repair for recurrent hernia.
The rate of hematomas, infections, and testicular complications range between 1 % and 3 %.
Considering the negative case selection of only large recurrent hernias, the TIPP repair reveals a favourably low 1-year recurrence rate of 1 %.
If representatives of the law suspect anyone of drug smuggling by internal bodily concealment and refers the person to hospital, the doctor is requested to recover the ingested drug packets by induction of emesis with syrup of ipecacuanha or apomorphin a.
The permission of this induction as a coercive measure is controversial.
The policemen, the public prosecutor or the judge has to decide, whether the induction of emesis is really necessary, the physician has to declare the risks.
Especially when there are only a few drug-containers and the person is no professial "body-packer", non-invasive diagnostic ways also can lead the evidence of incorporated drugs.
Rupture of the drug containers leads to acute intoxication and the physician must regard the person as his patient, he has to refuse the role as medical expert for the representatives of law.
The deformity in severe spondylolisthesis consists of two components: the parallel anterocaudad slip of the spondylolisthetic vertebra, and its tilt into kyphotic malposition.
The influence of the two components is very different: the anterocaudad slippage has not much impact on the sagittal profile of the spine and is easily compensated for by a slight increase in lumbar lordosis.
The kyphotic deformity has a high impact on trunk imbalance and the sagittal profile.
There are two compensation mechanisms: hyperlordosis of the lumbar spine to its anatomical extremes and - if that is not sufficient - verticalisation of the sacral bone, performed by contracture of the hamstrings and uprighting of the pelvis around the hip joints.
The latter mechanism is followed by functional disadvantages.
Therefore, correction of the kyphosis of L5 may be considered during operative treatment if the lumbosacral kyphosis (angle delta) is less than 85  ° and the sacral inclination less than 35  °.
The diagnosis of malalignments of the lower extremities includes analysis of the geometry of the whole leg.
The first step in the diagnostic process is a standardized physical examination.
It provides valuable background information for an effective radiological diagnosis.
Even with a thorough standardized physical examination it is not possible to define exactly the deformity or decide on an operative procedure.
The diagnosis of axis deviations in the frontal plane can be measured on a conventional plain X-ray of the whole leg.
In this view it is very important that the knee joints are in a true a. p. view independent on torsional deformities of the lower legs.
Today the gold standard to measure the torsion and length of the lower extremities is the CT scan.
However, the multitude of analytical methods for CT measurements described in the literature do not lend themselves readily to comparison; thus, it is difficult to identify a clear method of choice.
Not every CT measurement is better than a physical examination.
Evidence of reproducibility and accuracy is a prerequisite for useful interpretation of the results.
Up to this point in the literature there are only reference values for the Ulm CT Method.
One alternative is the MR scan, which avoids radiological risks, but the reproducibility and accuracy of the MRI method are not as good as for the CT method.
Another alternative is ultrasound, where recent advances in the measurement of torsion and length of the lower extremities have proven competitive with or superior to the accuracy of MRI.
The three-dimensional determination of the torsion and length of the lower extremities by ultrasound has now assumed a leading role in the non-radiological diagnosis of malalignments of the lower extremities in children and adolescents.
This method furthermore is increasingly being used in preoperative planning of leg deformities in adults.
Purpose: Management of organ-confined RCC is primarily surgical.
5-year survival rates of all stages improved from 40 % in the 1950th to 50 % in the 60th, and stagnate at 60 % in recent series.
Paramount use of ultrasound in modern medicine has been claimed to contribute significantly to an earlier detection of RCC thus better amenable for radical operation.
Other factors may have been strategies and general hospital care.
However, it remains unclear whether an extended lymph node dissection as suggested vy Robson in a seminal paper in the 1960th bears any therapeutic value.
Selected patients with minor lower limb injuries and low risk for deep vein thrombosis (DVT), who required cast immobilizing and did not receive medical thrombosis prophylaxis, were included in a prospective study.
The decision to give not medical thrombosis prophylaxis depended on an concept of individualised prophylaxis for patients at risk for thromboembolism.
From March 1994 to March 1996 in 178 outpatients (118 men, 60 women, mean age 25,8 [16-39] years) a clinical examination and a colour-coded duplex sonography were performed after removel of the cast for detection of DVT of the lower limb.
A phlebographie was performed when thrombosis was suspected.
Two patients developed a one bundle thrombosis of the calf.
Clinical appearance of lung embolism was not observed.
These results suggest, that low risk patients with minor injuries of the lower limb and plaster cast immobilisation do not need a medical thrombosis prophylaxis.
For the judgment of the quality of medical services and for the progress of clinical medicine the comparison of data and informations of the diagnostic and therapeutic process is demanded.
Therefore a systematic and concrete system of documentation should be implemented in every clinic, which consists of standard nomenclature, classification, instruments of outcome measure and documentation standards.
There are a group of problems and barriers which stand in the way of this goal.
It is useful to build a minimum basis data set which includes core criterias of clinical dokumentation in orthopedic surgery and include this in an information system so that all of these parts are considered and that a central and comparable data pool is offered for patient care, quality management and research.
Basal cell adenocarcinoma was first introduced as an entity in the second edition of the WHO's "Histologic Typing of Salivary Gland Tumours" in 1991.
This tumor was first described in 1990 by Ellis and Wiskovitch from the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (AFIP).
Basal cell adenocarcinoma accounts for about 2.9% of all salivary gland malignancies.
More than 90% of the tumors are situated in the parotid gland.
Intraoral manifestations are known from case reports only.
Tumors of the palate have been mentioned in three cases.
Histologically this tumor can be easily confused with basal cell adenoma and the solid basaloid subtype of adenoid cystic carcinoma.
The case presented here is a middle-aged white woman with a basal cell adenocarcinoma of the palate.
Therapy consisted of surgical extirpation with three-dimensional safety margins and histologically proven clear resection margins.
Knowledge at this point indicates that basal cell adenocarcinoma has a rather high probability of local recurrence (up to 50%) and a mostly lymphogenous metastatic potential for as long as  10 years after removal of the primary tumor.
Ten year survival is around 75%.
Purpose: To study the incidence and shape of subclinical keratoconus with corneal topography in the fellow eye in the case of clinically, slit-lamp biomicroscopically and topographically diagnosed unilateral disease.
Ischemic heart disease is the most frequent cause of death in industrialized countries.
This is a result of persistent risk factors and aging of the population.
Medical progress with application of conservative, surgical or interventional strategies indeed reduced the morbidity and mortality of arteriosclerotic diseases, but markedly increased the medical care costs.
The result is a discussion about the optimal use of the different therapeutic measures under consideration of the evidence based medicine.
The ileal conduit is a simple and safe supravesical urinary diversion with few postoperative complications.
In patients with liver disease with portal hypertension, however, the risk of recurrent, peracute conduit bleeding is increased.
While the diagnosis is simple, several therapeutic options are available.
In most cases the bleeding comes from stomal varices, that can be controlled with local sclerotherapy with 3% Ethoxyscerol or ligation of the bleeding vessel.
The resection of the part of the conduit carrying the varices is an option if bleeding is life threatening or the source cannot be localised.
If bleeding recurs excision of the conduit should be considered.
Malignant disease must be excluded as a bleeding source.
Objectives: The cardiotoxic properties of bupivacain have been well documented under in-vitro, as well as under in-vivio conditions.
A further mechanism of cardiovascular impairment by bupivacaine via the central nervous system gained investigational interest in animal studies.
The aim of our study was to demonstrate the effect of a ventriculocisternal perfusion of bupivacain on systemic hemodynamic variabels and their reversability by wash-out with mock-CSF.
In recent years, our knowledge concerning pathophysiological changes in brain metabolism after traumatic brain injury (TBI) has greatly expanded.
This, in turn, has enabled the development of specific pharmacological strategies for the supplementary treatment of brain-injured patients with the aim of reducing secondary brain damage.
The present article focuses on the pathophysiology of TBI and the possibilities for pharmacological intervention.
While some of the substances reviewed are presently used in the treatment of TBI, others are under experimental and clinical evaluation at different stages.
This study explored characteristic subjective experiences of schizophrenia.
A questionnaire for self-assessment of disturbances in several cognitive and perceptual areas (the Eppendorf Schizophrenia Inventory, or ESI) was constructed and administered to first-episode schizophrenics (SCHe, n=45), negative syndrome schizophrenics (SCHn, n=45), remitted schizophrenics (SCHr, n=24), depressives (DEP, n=43), alcoholics (ALK, n=48), obsessive-compulsive patients (ZWA, n=46), and healthy controls (KON, n=57).
Comparisons between the SCHe, SCHn, DEP, ALK, and ZWA groups and a subsequent factor analysis revealed four schizophrenia-specific dimensions: attention and speech impairment (AS), ideas of reference (IR), auditory uncertainty (AU), and deviant perception (DP).
Further analyses suggested that the AS syndrome may represent a mediating vulnerability factor while IR, AU, and DP probably are reversible episode indicators.
The results may contribute to refinements in the measurement of specific prepsychotic signs, thus facilitating the development of early intervention approaches.
Introduction: The conservative treatment of the most severe cases of keratoconjunctivitis sicca (KCS) can be sometimes frustrating.
Especially with an underlying autoimmunologic disorder, even the application of artificial tears as often as every 5 min may not prevent further damage to the ocular surface.
A microvascular transplantation of the autologous submandibular gland (SG) can be performed by a maxillo-facial surgeon as an alternative approach for those cases.
We report 2 years of ophthalmological experience with the results of this procedure.
Aims: The predominant cause of death due to oral cancer is the failure to control local tumor due to regional tumor recurrence.
The sequelae of surgical resection and high-dose irradiation cause substantial changes in head and neck anatomy, leading to considerable problems in the early morphological detection of recurrent disease.
Therefore, this study evaluates the verification of cancer recurrence by means of its pathologic glucose metabolism.
Materials and methods: We reviewed a total of 50 [18F]-2-fluordeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18FDG-PET) investigations performed in 44 patients who had undergone surgical resection of oral cancer.
In 23 cases, re-staging (group A) was indicated due to suspicion of recurrent or secondary tumor manifestation.
In 27 cases, PET served as a screening procedure (group B).
Statistic evaluation included sensitivity, specifity, positive/negative predictive value and accuracy of 18FDG-PET for the detection of tumor manifestation.
Results: 18FDG-PET correctly identified 23 of 26 tumor sites (88%) in the re-staging group and 9 of 10 tumor sites (90%) in the screening group.
We encountered a total number of 16 false-positive foci with an increased 18FDG-uptake.
In six patients, 18FDG-PET detected tumor recurrence several months before a morphological correlative could be identified.
In 5 of these 6 patients, the PET findings for the latter tumor sites determined the patient's fate.
Specificity was 63% for local recurrence, 97% for secondary lymph node involvement and 90% for distant metastasis.
Conclusion: According to these data, 18FDG-PET is the most effective diagnostic tool in the follow-up of oral cancer patients to date.
Due to the high prevalence of recurrent disease in the follow-up of oral cancer, either the detection of early recurrence or the identification of additional, incurable tumors may add substantially to a rational therapeutic management.
We therefore recommend 18FDG-PET for screening and re-staging of recurrent oral cancer.
In over 80 % of patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease, the Nissen antireflux fundoplication gives good long-term results.
Dysphagia, inability to belch or vomit as well as the gas bloat syndrome are possible sequelae after fundoplication.
The frequency of these symptoms could be reduced by modification of the original Nissen-Rossetti fundoplication into the so-called "floppy" Nissen fundoplication, a short and loose wrap of mobilized gastric fundus.
Failures of the antireflux procedure are mainly due to disruption or displacement of the wrap with the telescope phenomenon.
Here, reoperation with refashioning of the original wrap may lead to same functional results like a primary fundoplication.
Technical alternatives may selectively be chosen, when gastroesophageal reflux disease is complicated by fixated hiatal hernia, esophageal shortening, or serious esophageal motility disorders.
Such specific anatomic or functional abnormalities are detected by preoperative endoscopy, barium swallow, 24-h pH monitoring, and manometry.
Alternative techniques are mainly transthoracic repairs, including the Nissen fundoplication, Collis gastroplasty, and the Belsey Mark IV.
Modifications of the 360  ° Nissen operation are partial fundoplications like the Hill repair and the Toupet dorsal fundoplication.
Because of a high failure rate in the long-term follow-up, application of the ligamentum teres cardiopexy and of the Angelchik prosthesis is not recommended.
We report a sporadic case of giant axonal neuropathy (GAN) starting in a 5-year-old boy with gait disturbance.
At the age of 10 years he showed signs of a sensomotoric polyneuropathy and central neurological symptoms: intention tremor, nystagmus and visual disturbance.
The boy also had curly hair.
Sural nerve biopsy showed many giant axons with accumulation of microfilaments, which were also found in cytoplasma of Schwann cells, endothelial cells and fibrocytes.
Similar changes were detected in endothelial cells of a muscle biopsy, which additionally displayed neurogenic atrophy and target fibers.
Immunohistochemically, desmin, vimentin, heat shock protein 70, and ubiquitin were not detectable in giant axons, which, however, contained neurofilament protein 68, 200 and  -tubulin.
Our case shows that careful ultrastructural examination of a muscle biopsy may point to the diagnosis of GAN.
The endoscopic release of the carpal ligament gives the opportunity to treat the carpal tunnel syndrome in a comfortable and minimal invasive way.
Between 1 October 1994 and 7 May 1995, 46 patients who underwent endoscopic surgery on 55 hands were documented in a prospective study.
The following results were taken from a questionnaire.
There were not any complaints, or the complaints were so much diminished that complete division of the carpal ligament could be viewed as accomplished in 51 of 55 cases.
There were continuing complaints in four cases, and after an additional check two patients were operated on again.
The advantage of the endoscopic method is the inconspicuous scar and the reduced postoperative disablement.
For surgical removal of a malignant choroid melanoma, it is necessary to reduce systolic blood pressure to around 50-60 mmHg in order to prevent choroidal haemorrhages.
However, blood pressure reduction is associated with the risk of cerebral ischaemia.
We report a patient with a malignant choroid melanoma in whom waves I and II of the brainstem auditory evoked potentials (BAEP) disappeared during surgery under controlled arterial hypotension and hypothermia (31.1 ° C).
The waves could be recorded again immediately after the mean arterial pressure was increased from 48 to 77 mmHg.
The oesophageal temperature had dropped by 0.3 ° C at this time.
The 2-channel electroencephalogram (EEG) showed no irregularities during this time period.
A bilateral, reversible, apparently blood-pressure-dependent loss of waves I and II during arterial hypotension despite a normal EEG has to our knowledge not been previously described in the literature.
The isolated loss of waves I and II with maintenance of waves III, IV, and V is unusual.
The literature contains reports of acoustic neurinoma patients in whom only wave V could be recorded.
This is regarded as an indication of continued impulse conduction despite the loss of waves I to IV.
Others have observed a patient with temporary and reversible loss of BAEP wave I due to vasospasm of the internal auditory artery that apparently occurred during or shortly after manipulation of the internal auditory meatus.
Assuming anatomic peculiarities in the blood supply to the generators of the BAEP waves, a stenosis of the basilar artery could be considered as the cause of the bilateral reversible loss of waves I and II.
Another potential source could be the induced hypothermia, but this does not seem very likely because the patient's temperature was 0.3 ° C lower at the return of the waves than at their loss.
In the syndrome arrhythmogenic right ventricular dysplasia cardiomyopathy, little is known to date about the mechanism for the development of arrhythmias.
In a group of 54 patients with documented ventricular tachycardia during longterm ECG recordings, the determinants for the development of VT and the relationship between signal-averaged ECG and the morphological characteristics of the disease are investigated.
The analysis of the long-term electrocardiographic data includes the measurement of RR-intervals 30, 15, 5, 1min and immediately before onset of the VT, the determination of the morphology of the previous ventricular premature beats, and the frequency of the atrial arrhythmias.
Normal values for the analysis of late potentials in the ECG signal accquisition with bidirectional filters between 40 and 300Hz were defined a maximum of 113ms for a QRS width, LAS of 38ms, and RMS40 of 16uV.
The analysis of the long-term ECG produced monomorphic VT in all cases without previous atrial arrhythmia and in only 4 cases with previous polymorphic ventricular premature beats.
A long-short phenomenon could only be proven in 4VT episodes.
In 84% of all tachycardias, no arrhythmia were found immediately before onset of the arrhythmic event.
According to the circadian clock, two peaks, mornings between 6 and 9h and evenings between 6 and 9h, could be determined.
In patients, who were recently diagnosed with ARVD, a significant shortening of the RR intervals before the onset of VT as an indication of an acceleration of the sinus rhythm was observed.
This effect could not be observed in patients with a past medical history of AVRD.
Late potentials were determined with a prevalence of 74% overall.
Increasingly, late potentials were observed with morphologically diffuse forms of the ARVD.
A correlation to the severity of spontaneous arrhythmias (ventricular, sustained or not sustained VT) could not be established.
In comparison to the origin of VT in coronary heart disease, previous arrhythmias play a less important role in arrhymogenic right ventricular dysplasia cardiomyopathy.
Most importantly, an intensified sympathetic tone before onset of VT and an increased prevalence of positive late potentials are observed.
We present the case of a 54-year-old male patient with a Syme amputation of his left leg following diabetic gangrene of the foot.
A  local infection of the stump was treated successfully with two  endoscopic debridements and lavage.
Additionally, the patient received local antibiotics by the application of antibiotic collagenous fleece and antibiotic chains.
This therapeutic management combined with early weight bearing led to a stable stump.
We describe an eighteen-months-old boy, who suffered from congenital vitium cordis, jejunalatresia, microcephaly, facial dysmorphies and psychomotor retardation in connection with a partial monosomy of the short arm of chromosome 8.
In most cases the genesis of brachial plexus palsy is traumatic, often because of bike accidents.
If physiotherapy and neurosurgical procedures such as nerve repair do not have the desired outcome, muscle transfer operations are possible.
The results of our favored transfer of the trapezius muscle to compensate paralysis of the deltoid muscle will be presented.
Preoperatively radiological, clinical and electromyographic examinations are necessary.
Our results are based upon the clinical and radiological check ups and the subjective assessment of the patients.
Thirty-one patients (7 female, 24 male) underwent a trapezius transfer between March 1994 and December 1996.
The average age was 29 years (range 18-46 years).
We performed the operations using a modification of Saha's technique.
With the patient in lateral decubitus position and protection of the opposite plexus, a sagital skin incision is the first step, followed by the preparation of trapezius and deltoid muscle as well as the bony parts of the shoulder (acromion, clavicle, scapular spine).
The deltoid origin is cut from the lateral third of the clavicle, the acromion and the lateral half of the scapular spine.
The next step is transection of the root of the acromion and the lateral clavicle.
After elevation of the remaining trapezius insertions from the clavicle and scapular spine, the proximal humerus is exposured by splitting the partly detached deltoid muscle longitudinally.
Then the acromion fragment and humerus are prepared for the bone-to-bone contact.
In 90  ° of abduction the acromion fragment with its trapezius insertion is transferred and fixed to the humerus with two 4.5-mm screws.
Finally the deltoid is sutured on the top of the trapezius and the skin is closed over two suction drains.
Postoperatively we immobilize the operated arm in an abduction support for 6 weeks.
The physiotherapy program starts on the first postoperative day with active training of elbow, hand and fingers and electrostimulation of the transferred trapezius muscle.
Six weeks after the procedure we take an X-ray and start with progressive adduction of the arm.
The preoperative subluxation of the humeral head was abolished in all cases.
We achieved an average increase of active abduction from 7.3  ° (range 0-45  °) preoperatively to 39.2  ° (range 25  °-80  °) 1 year after the operation; the increase of forward flexion was from 20  ° (range 0  °-85  °) to 43  ° (range 20  °-90  °).
All patients were satisfied with the improvement of stability and function of the operated shoulder.
Finally we can conclude that the trapezius transfer for flail shoulder gives a satisfactory outcome regarding shoulder function and stability as well as the subjective situation of the patients.
We analyzed psychiatric and criminological data from 103 arsonists.
The following criticisms of the definition of pyromania according to DSM-III-R and IDC-10 seem appropriate.
First, the categoric exclusion of aggressive motives does not seem very promising, since approximately one fourth of arsonists whose firesetting is based on motives quoted in DSM-III-R may also have an aggressive motive.
Second, ICD-10 gives being drunk and alcoholism as a criterion for the exclusion of pyromania.
This seems untenable, since the behavior classed as pyromania is largely a product of alcohol misuse.
Repeated firesetting, resulting from being fascinated by fire etc., may be less a disturbance of impulse control but rather the manifestation of a psychoinfantilism, which, supported by alcohol abuse, extends into older age.
The mean age of such arsonists is slightly above 20 years.
The tendency for relapses after imprisonment seems to be low; this tendency probably decreases spontaneously in older age.
The mean age of arsonists with aggressive motives is a little below 30 years, those setting fire with suicidal motives have a mean age of 35, deluded arsonists have a mean age of 40 years.
Concrete sexual motives are relatively rare.
Approximately 50 % of arsonists have a purely aggressive motive.
Retaliation is a rare cause, however, since most of them do not even know the victims.
One third of these persons set the fire in their own homes.
Most arsonists show a personality disorder, with insecurity and narcissism predominating.
Data on firesetting are to be treated with caution, since two thirds of all cases are newer resolved; one fourth of cases concern minors, and in Central Europe arsonists with rational motives are hardly ever referred to psychiatrists.
A normal ciliary beat frequency of ciliated cells is necessary for the mucociliary clearance of the nose and paranasal sinuses.
An in vitro investigation was performed to eval-uate the influence of topical corticosteroids and antihistamines on the ciliary beat frequency of human nasal mucosa.
The nasal sprays examined contained the corticosteroids budesonide or fluticasone propionate and the topical antihistamines azelastine or levocabastine.
All tests were performed on cell cultures of human nasal mucosa during constant conditions.
Three of the four nasal sprays tested contained benzalkonium chloride as preservative.
An irreversible cessation of ciliary movement was observed in all cells exposed to nasal sprays containing benzalkonium chloride in a 50 per cent solution.
The nasal spray containing budesonide was benzalkonium chloride-free and caused minor but fully reversible decreases in ciliary beat frequency after 20 min.
As benzalkonium chloride can cause complete standstill of ciliary beat frequency in vitro in human nasal mucosa, we recommend that this preservative should not be used anymore in topical nasal medications.
The treatment of patients with severe burn injuries is expensive and belongs in the hands of specialized burn centres.
In our burn centre 257 patients were treated from 1991 to June 1995 (between 50 and 60 patients per year except for 1993 with 77 patients).
Patients were evaluated according to the ABSI score (mean 7) and had mortality of around 15%.
The costs range between 3.7 and 4.8 million DM per year, the profit lies in the same range.
The costs are divided into staff costs (1.4 - 1.8 million DM per year), costs for medical treatment (1.5 - 1.9 million DM per year) and costs for internal services (600 000 - 900 000 DM per year) such as laboratory examinations (247 000 - 386 000 DM per year) and blood bank (100 000 - 215 000 DM per year), the main factors in this category.
The different fields of costs and profit are compared in this analysis.
Possible ways of reducing costs are pointed out, and the question of effectiveness of therapy is discussed.
Conclusions from this analysis are limited by the individuality of each case with different clinical courses, the great number of influencing factors and the comparably small numbers of patients.
In benign laryngotracheal stenosis the amount of respiratory deterioration rather than the crude morphologic appearance will determine whether or not surgical measures such as dilatation or resection should be applied.
This review focusses on currently available and newly developed diagnostic tools to assess the functional importance of central airway obstruction.
After an outline of upper airway physiology is formulated, spirometric measurements at rest are collected.
Among these, Peak Expiratory Flow Rate (PEF) proved to be the simplest and most reliable parameter to monitor an obstructing lesion of the upper airways.
A novel technique for fibrobronchoscopic assessment of glottic and tracheal resistance is presented in detail.
In contrast to usual tests of total airflow resistance which cannot distinguish between central and peripheral contributions, this test identifies the pressure-flow-relationship created exclusively by the local lesion.
In serial stenoses, it indicates which is of higher clinical impact.
Patients with upper airway obstruction complain of impaired exercise capacity.
They tend to hypoventilate with imminent respiratory muscle fatigue.
Therefore, spiroergometry may play a role in defining the point of incomplete compensation of a central load.
The decision to operate will depend upon up the degree of physical capacity required to compensate for the stenosis.
Stroke units are hospital-based special wards aiming at optimal care by a specialized team with an integrated concept for patients with acute strokes.
Following the initial neurolo-gical and neuroradiological evaluation, early treatment will be initiated based on the assumed pathophysiology of the stroke.
Acute management includes monitoring of physiological, parameters, care by specialized nurses, and early implementation of physiotherapists, speech therapy and occupational therapy.
Despite the increased initial costs, the long-term burden for the health system is decreased by shorter hospital stay and reduced morbidity and disability.
Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is the most important side-effect of heparin therapy.
Two types of thrombocytopenia can be caused by heparin: a frequent non-immunologic type causing a minor decrease in thrombocyte count without apparent clinical importance and, on the other hand, an immunologic type accompanied by thromboembolic complications.
Patients and methods: We report on two cases with HIT type II after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
HIT antibodies were demonstrated by ELISA for platelet-factor-4-heparin-complex and heparin-induced platelet-activation (HIPA) assay.
Results: A 67 year old patient suffered from a HIT type II seven days after administration of heparin during myocardial revascularization.
In this patient, a continuous fever and a signicantly reduced general condition were the primary symptoms.
The clinical picture of this disease was reversible after aborting the heparin therapy.
Thromboembolic complications did not occur.
A 70 year old patient developed a HIT type II with thromboembolic complications 13 days after CABG.
The vascular occlusions affected the A. spinalis anterior with the development of a spinalis anterior-syndrome, the coronary arteries with the development of myocadial infarction, and the A. iliaca interna.
A white-clot syndrome with thrombi in the ascending aorta, in the left atrium, and in the left ventricle required an operation with extracorporal circulation including the use of recombinant hirudin for anticoagulation.
Conclusion: With therapy with heparin, it is obligatory to check platelet count.
An indication for the development of HIT type II is a decrease in platelet count or thromboembolic complications during heparin therapy.
In the case of HIT type II recombinant hirudin was a practical altenative as an anticoagulant for extracorporal circulation and for continous hemofiltration.
Oxygen radicals and oxygen radial mediators are thought to be important components in the development of acute lung injury, sepsis, and multiple organ failure.
Injured patients, patients with pulmonary diseases, and multiple trauma patients also showed an elevated lipid peroxidation, indicating increased oxidant stress.
N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) has been used as an antioxidant in a wide variety of experiments.
NAC has been suggested to act by raising concentrations of cysteine, and hence glutathione, and by scavenging of oxidant species [1, 11, 17, 29].
The present study was designed to investigate whether the application of NAC in intubated patients has an effect on concentrations of reduced glutathione in plasma and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BAL) and on the lipid peroxidation products malondialdehyde and conjugated dienes.
Because NAC has been widely used as a mucolytic drug for the treatment of lung diseases, the influence on tracheobronchial mucus was studied, too.
Between 1990 and 1995, 27 patients with posttraumatic disorders of the subtalar joint were treated by correcting fusion.
Preoperatively 24 patients (88.89 %) suffered from pain; 15 (55.56 %) had a walking range below 100 m. Seven patients were unable to work in their original profession.
After an average period of 13.85 months postoperatively the patients were examined again.
At this time 18 (66.67 %) had no or minimal pain; 19 (70.37 %) had no claudication.
According to the score of Angus and Skuginna, in 81.48 % of patients the result of the correcting arthrodesis was successful; according to Kitaoka's clinical rating system for ankle-hindfoot, midfoot, hallux and lesser toes, the average postoperative score was 75.8 points.
Objective: To examine changes in Body Mass Index (BMI) in children in the last twenty years and to determine the prevalence of overweight and obesity.
The review of medication has been recommended as an important part in preventing falls.
In a random sample of 276 hospital in-patients aged 75 and over, the frequency of prescribed drugs which may increase the risk of falling by causing dizziness was assessed.
Questions about dizziness and previous falls were included in a standardized questionnaire.
Migration of an impacted mandibular premolar is a rare finding, whereas dystopia of lower jaw cuspids is described much more often in the literature.
We present a patient in whom radiographic studies show the migration of a mandibular premolar to the muscular process over a period of 14 years.
Most of the tooth migration along the vertical portion of the mandibula into the processus muscularis took place after the root development had ended.
Neither radiological nor clinical examination revealed the stimulus which changed the path and the direction of the impacted tooth.
In atopic eczema patients the well-known abnormal cutaneous reactivity of the blood vessels (white dermographism, delayed blanch after acetylcholine, paradoxical blanching after nicotinic acid application and diminished erythema after histamine injection) were observed during acute eczematous episodes and later in an eczema-free state in comparison with controls.
In this follow-up study the use of different stimuli allowed us to demonstrate abnormal cutaneous vascular reactions in the patients depending on the severity of their atopic eczema.
Severely affected patients showed persistence of the paradoxical vascular reactions even in an eczema-free cutaneous state.
We report on a 9-year-old girl with a giant cell fibroblastoma of the right anterior chest wall.
This rare soft tissue tumour occurs predominantly in the first two decades of life.
The typical clinical presentation is a solitary, usually 2-6 cm large, non-tender mass of blue-greyish colour which is mostly located on the back, anterior chest wall, thigh or groin.
The histology shows a loose infiltrate of predominantly bland spindle cells in dermis and subcutis.
Characteristic elements of the tumour are large angiectoid branching spaces lacking any endo- or epithelium, and relatively small multinucleated cells (floret cells).
The recurrence rate is high if the tumour is not excised with adequate safety margins.
It is of pre-eminent importance to differentiate this rare benign tumor from sarcomas, in order to avoid an inappropriately aggressive therapy.
To correct severe septal deformities, it is often necessary to perform an extracorporal septoplasty with temporary removal of the deviated septal cartilage, followed by straightening and reimplantation into the nose as free graft.
The utilization of a compound graft, which sutures the cartilage fragments to a resorbable polydioxanon (PDS) foil, facilitates this technique immediately while simultaneously ensuring support of the nasal dorsum.
Stress incontinence is the most frequent form of incontinence found in females.
The usual method of surgery for this is to lift the bladder neck towards cranial and ventral.
Two competitive techniques - bladder neck suspension in accordance with Stamey and colposuspension in accordance with Burch - were retrospectively investigated.
A total of 95 women underwent surgery and it was possible to evaluate the postoperative course in 46 and 30 (total 76) patients respectively.
Initially, both surgical techniques demonstrated a very good success rate (91.3 % and 96.7 % resp.).
However, the continence rate of the Stamey patients deteriorated after 6 weeks down to 78.3 % and after more than 2 years only 28.6 % of these patients were still completely continent (mean follow-up 40.4 mths), whereas deterioration in the Burch patients was only 87 % (mean follow-up 44.25 mths).
The disappointing results with the Stamey technique did not correlate with the degree of initial continence.
It was noted here that obese patients showed a greater tendency towards regression.
The three cases of recurring incontinence after Burch colposuspension were already relapses at the time of surgery.
With respect to long-term follow-up, our results with the Stamey method were distinctly poorer than with the Burch technique.
Therefore, in our opinion, the Burch colposuspension procedure and fascioplasty should be the method of choice for the management of stress incontinence.
This paper is concerned with the relationship between social inequality and psychiatric disorders, an issue being neglected in German psychiatry for a long time.
Social inequality will be discussed in it's dimensions "socioeconomic status" and "sex" referring to the present state of epidemiological and sociological knowledge.
Because such macrosocial factors offer little explanation for the association with psychiatric disorders by themselves microsocial concepts of burden and resources are necessary to link the structural and the individual level.
These concepts are considered to be one pathway by which the mechanisms to disease may occur.
A short review of empirical findings and analytic approaches show the complexity of these mechanisms requiering further research not only because of analytic deficiences but also because of social change.
Further research will concern in general the explanation of social patterns of diseases, in detail the link between individual stress and coping with the social structure, and last but not least a gender-sensitive approach to psychiatric disorders which is more differenciated.
It is well known that alterations to the oral cavity caused by dental prostheses may affect speech articulation, although influences on the voice are not assumed.
In addition to the vocal fundamental frequency, vibrations of the vocal chords generate overtones.
Through the shape of the larynx and the upper airway, resonances and antiresonances are formed, and in this way overtones are amplified to a variable extent.
Nozzle changes caused by a dental prosthesis in the oral cavity may possibly influence overtones but influences on the vocal fundamental frequency seem unlikely.
The influence of dental prostheses on the voice is demonstrated in a patient who owned two different dental prostheses.
The fundamental frequency rose by up to five semitones during speech and his vocal range increased by up to four semitones when a thin denture was used instead of a normal denture.
When the position of the mandible was checked by intraoral needle point placement, a more rostral position of the mandible was recorded with the thin denture than with the normal denture.
Sagittal magnetic resonance tomography imaging also showed that the larynx was in a more cranial position.
This change was presumed to be due to an upward movement of the larynx induced by the tongue, which itself was found to be in a more cranial position with the thin denture.
In this situation, increased tension of the laryngeal muscles were believed to induce a rise in fundamental frequency, shifting the voice range toward higher frequencies.
These findings show that dental prostheses can cause vocal changes in individual cases.
The etiology of this occurrence is still not clear.
Its consequences, however, should be known to the dentist, ENT surgeon and phoniatrist if patients notice changes in their voice after having altered or replaced their dentures.
Cytokine blood levels are found to be moderately elevated in chronic heart failure, as a function of severity of disease.
The source of these cytokines and the trigger mechanisms stimulating cytokine release are a matter of intense research.
Potential players include bacterial endotoxin from intestinal translocation, a neurohumoral dysbalance with an enhanced sympathetic tone or an overspill of cytoines from the failing heart itself.
We present arguments in favor of a direct link between the chronically enhanced sympathetic tone in heart failure and the clinically over activation of the immune system, particularly interleukin 6 release.
Objectives: This 1998 survey was carried out on the use of the sitting position for neurosurgical procedures in the posterior fossa and operations of the craniospinal and cervical spine region by the dorsal approach.
In addition, anesthetic management of the sitting position and the compliance with recommendations of the Neuroanesthesia Study Group of the German Society of Anesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine (DGAI) published in 1995 were investigated and compared to results of a 1995 survey.
Polar body analysis is a perfect tool to exclude genetically altered oocytes prior to fertilisation.
This helps to improve pregnancy rates and baby take home rates in assisted reproduction, primarily in advanced maternal age patients.
This might reduce the need of invasive prenatal diagnosis for those patients.
Polar body analysis offers treatment in reproductive medicine for female patients carrying a chromosomal aberration or a mutation before they become pregnant.
However, it does not assess the genetic status of the embryo resulting from the oocyte tested and selected.
The paternal contribution to the embryo is left unattended.
Ethical considerations do not play a role, since no manipulation or selection is performed on embryos.
Pachydermoperiostosis (Friedreich-Erb-Arnold syndrome, Touraine-Solente-Golé syndrome) is a rare disease with an autosomal dominant mode of unheritance; it occurs almost exclusively in men.
A report of typical pachydermoperiostosis in a 31-year-old man is presented.
Associated features were clubbed digits of the hands and feet with watch-crystal nails, thickening of the skin and soft tissues, hyperhidrosis of hands and feet, hyperplasia of the sebaceous glands with seborrhoea, gynaecomastia, and ophthalmic abnormalities that had been present since puberty.
Radiological examination revealed periosteal hyperostosis of the short and long bones.
Endocrine disturbances were not detected.
Skin biopsies showed hypertrophy of the skin and skin appendages.
Primary (idiopathic, hereditary) pachydermoperiostosis should be distinguished from secondary (symptomatic) forms of the disease, which are often associated with lung tumours.
The following review will examine the outcome of psychotherapy and pharmacotherapy treatment studies of anorexia and bulimia nervosa.
For both eating disorders, psychotherapy is the treatment of choice.
In clinical practice "treatment packages" are offered to account for the complexity of the disorders.
In bulimia nervosa, cognitive-behavioral therapy techniques have dominated the literature and appear to be successful.
Newer studies reporting on the use of interpersonal therapy also find considerable improvement of symptoms.
Antidepressive medication can be useful in the treatment of bulimia nervosa.
Recently, a stepped care approach to treatment has been recommended, with self-care manuals as the first step.
In anorexia nervosa there is a paucity of controlled clinical trials.
Contingency management for weight restoration can be viewed as a necessary element in all in- and outpatient treatments.
Family therapy, cognitive-behavioral therapy, and psychodynamic approaches have proven useful in clinical practice; however, only a limited data base exists regarding the efficacy of these therapies.
Medication should not be used routinely in the treatment of anorexia nervosa.
Absorption of irrigating fluid in transurethral prostatic resection (TURP) and percutaneous nephrolitholapaxy (PNL) into veins or delayed absorption due to fluid extravasation may result in a TURP syndrome.
The measurement of end-tidal breath alcohol concentration (et AC) as a monitor of absorption of irrigating fluid labelled with 2% ethanol is limited by the disturbance of infrared sensors by volatile anaesthetics and nitrous oxide (N2O) (Fig.
An electrochemical sensor is acceptable for this method.
The aim of the present study was the evaluation of breath alcohol measurements using an electrochemical sensor device (Alcomed 3010, Envitec).
The stability of the sensor in the presence of volatile anaesthetics was examined using a lung model.
In a clinical investigation, the device was then applied to spontaneously breathing or mechanically ventilated patients inhaling volatile anaesthetics during endoscopic urological surgery.
Skin diseases, the psyche and psychological changes are often intertwined, especially in patients presenting for expert dermatologic opinion.
In many cases an additional evaluation provided by psychotherapeutic medicine may be necessary.
This resource may help with the diagnosis, explanation of the problem and estimation of the degree of disability.
The different legal guidelines of the various evaluation boards must be considered.
The role of psychotherapeutic evaluation is demonstrated through case examples.
The evaluation of new possibly occupationally-related disorders such as multiple chemical sensitivity and mobbing is considered.
We investigated the impact of old age on the antidepressant effect of sleep deprivation.
32 depressive inpatients were assessed before and after sleep deprivation by the Hamilton Depression Rating Scale.
The patients were divided into two groups according to their age.
The result showed no negative impact of old age on the anti-depressant effect of sleep deprivation.
During MRI-controlled resection of brain tumors using an open MRI system, operation-induced alterations may occur, especially enhancement of the resection cavity wall.
This may simulate tumor areas, resulting in false assessment of the resection or resection of non-tumorous areas.
Based on 42 MRI- and biopsy-controlled brain tumor resections in an 0.5 T open MRI (Signa SP, GE), the appearance and origin of operation-induced reactions are analyzed.
In our opinion, there is a superposition of preformed peritumoral reactions by operation-induced microcontusions.
The beginning of the cavity wall enhancement needs at least 10-15 min.
MRI-controlled analysis of the intraoperative steps by the neurosurgeon and neuroradiologist allows discrimination of operation-induced reactions from tumor areas and leads to safe operation.
Angiosarcomas are very rare but highly malignant soft tissue tumors derived from the vascular endothelium.
The tumor is most commonly found in the skin.
The cancer is known to cause early and widespread metastases leading to a very poor prognosis of less than 24 months.
The therapy of choice is radical surgery followed by adjuvant radiation.
Background: Lipoprotein (a) is an important codominantly inherited risk factor for coronary disease but there is little data about its distribution in childhood.
Despite the important role of lymph node infiltration for the classification and prognosis of non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC), no standards exist to evaluate the quality of mediastinal lymphadenectomy.
Researches at several centers are not convinced that complete ipsilateral lymphadenectomy is necessary.
We investigated 270 consecutive patients undergoing a potential curative operation for NSCLC including complete ipsilateral lymph node dissection in order to ascertain whether or not there is a correlation between tumor localization and lymph node infiltration.
Patients were classified into the UICC (1987) stages I (n = 115), II (n = 42), and IIIa (n = 113).
In patients with N1-positive lymph nodes (n = 61) we found higher 5-year survival for patients with only intrapulmonary lymph node infiltration (39 %) than for patients with hilar infiltration (21 %).
Patients with N2 disease showed skip metastases in up to 81 % of cases.
We found that no tumor location predicted the lymph node infiltration.
Due to the variability of lymph node infiltration and the frequently occurring skip metastases, complete ipsilateral lymphadenectomy should be the standard for curative operations for NSCLC.
The muscles should be viewed as a response member in functional and structural disorders as well as in central control.
This second part of the article will attempt to show not only that the muscles are representing an interesting and sensitive information pool for disorders in the motoric system, but also that lesions in specific leg and hip muscles have an effect on the pelvis and spine and even on scapular mobility.
Purpose: The aim of the study was to apply laparoscopic techniques in reconstructive procedures for aortoiliac occlusive disease.
Methods: From February 1996 to February 1998, 16 patients underwent a laparoscopic aortobifemoral bypass procedure (ABF) using the transperitoneal approach.
Six, 5 to 12 mm ports were needed to dissect, cross-clamp and divide the infrarenal aorta using specific laparoscopic devices.
The aortic anastomosis was made end-to-side.
A long curved clamp was then passed from each groin to draw the limbs of the graft into the femoral incision.
The distal anastomosis was then performed conventionally.
Results: The laparoscopic ABF was performed successfully in 13 of 16 cases.
Three times a conversion to open surgery was requested.
One patient developed respiratory insufficiency requiring prolonged treatment on the ICU.
Mean operative time was 292 +/- 60 min; the aorta was crossclamped for 74 +/- 18 min.
Two patients needed transfusions of red blood cells.
In the study group, blood loss averaged 566 +/- 434 ml.
The bypass patency and the correct positioning of the graft were assessed by angiography.
The patients were discharged 9 +/- 5.8 days after surgery.
At follow-up after 4.5 +/- 4 months, 15 patients were examined noninvasively in the vascular laboratory.
All grafts were patent, and the ischemic symptoms had resolved in 14 patients.
One patient with recurrent claudication had severe stenosis of the left distal anastomosis.
Conclusions: The laparoscopic aortobifemoral bypass is a feasible, safe and effective procedure.
Specific laparoscopic instruments are required for the challenging procedure.
The development of vascular staplers and retraction devices will probably reduce the operative time and the technical challenge.
In the future this operative technique may gain relevance as a minimally invasive procedure for severe aortoiliac occlusive disease.
A 12 year old boy developed the complete symptom complex of Adamantiades-Behçet's disease over a two-year period.
He presented with the mucocutaneous variant with recurrent to persistent oral ulcers which extended into the pharynx, recurrent genital ulcers, perianal lesions, and a positive pathergy test.
Ocular involvement and other  symptoms associated with the disease were absent.
However, the early onset of the  disease and the male gender indicated a bad prognosis.
The patients father deficiency of suffered from bronchial asthma with recurrent respiratory infections.
An IgG-3 subclass was detected.
Lymphocyte transformation tests showed markedly diminished response to stimulation with anti-CD3 monoclonal antibody in both patients, while response to PWM, CoA and PHA was normal.
In addition, the concentration of serum soluble interleukin 6 receptor was reduced in both patients.
A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for the detection of dermatophytes was established.
The primers "TR1" and "TR2" amplify a 581 bp fragment within the gene coding for the small ribosomal subunit (18S rRNA) of fungi.
PCR allowed the detection of isolates of 7 common dermatophytes and in addition several yeasts and moulds.
Hybridisation with specific oligonucleotides results in the identification of dermatophytes and Candida albicans.
Restriction analysis of the PCR product allowed us to distinguish between dermatophytes and yeasts or moulds.
The specifity of the PCR with respect to fungi was assessed by testing human DNA collected from 42 dermis and epidermis specimens as well as DNA from selected plants and animals.
To evaluate the clinical relevance of the PCR assay, 69 routinely collected skin and nail specimens were examined by PCR and culture.
PCR detected dermatophytes in 35 and culture in 28 of 38 specimens that were classified as positive.
Sensitivity of PCR (92%) was higher than that of culture (73%).
These results show that PCR has advantages over culture for the detection of dermatophytes.
Starting with the recommendations of the "Psychiatrie-Enquête", a current empirical stock-taking was undertaken about the structure of care in psychiatric hospital units.
319 treatment units (289 in Germany, 11 in Austria, and 19 in Switzerland) were investigated concerning size of the treatment unit, number of wards, centrality of admission, existence of large observation rooms ("Wachsäle"), spezialized wards, single sex wards, regionalization/sectorization, open-door wards, coercive measures, and intended structural changes.
The return rate of questionnaires amounted 59%.
The results show that the recommendations of the "Psychiatrie-Enquête" are mostly realized today, but not everywhere.
Across countries differences resulted in size of ward, centrality of admission, open-door wards, and coercive measures.
Treatment units in the western and eastern parts of germany differed in size of ward and centrality of admission.
Differences between psychiatric hospitals, psychiatric departments at general hospitals and psychiatric university hospitals were, though significant, smaller than expected in the light of past controversies.
Intended structural changes mainly concerned open-door wards, internal sectorization, decentralization of admission, and mixing the sexes in single sex wards.
Background: The ciliary sulcus as the intended location of transsclerally fixated posterior chamber lenses (PCL) is withdrawn from the surgeon's view.
Using high-resolution ultrasound, we acquire pictures that postoperatively allow us to determine the position of the haptics.
Many patients would like to resume some sport activities after total knee replacement; however, most recommendations are based on subjective opinion rather than scientific evidence.
Background: Considering the high recurrence rate after conventional inguinal hernia repair, the totally preperitoneal endoscopic inguinal hernia repair has been used.
Methods: The present experience of the authors embraces 1085 patients with a total of 1717 inguinal hernias, including 200 recurrences.
The operative technique is described with emphasis on pitfalls and tricks.
Results: Analysis of the data concerning the first 403 patients with 1 year complete follow-up reveals a mean (SEM) operating time of 42 (1.2) min for unilateral and 58 (1.0) min for bilateral hernia repair.
Mean (SEM) postoperative hospital stay was 2 (0.04) days.
Complication rates during and after operation were 0.3 % and 3.3 % respectively.
The morbidity rate at 1 month after operation was 3.5 %.
The recurrence rate was 0.3 % at 1-year follow-up.
Conclusion: Totally preperitoneal endoscopic inguinal hernia repair is safe and reproducible for any type of primary or recurrent inguinal hernia, even in patients with previous subumbilical surgery or severe systemic disease.
Careful follow-up is mandatory to assess the late recurrence rate.
Background: The aim of this study was to evaluate prospectively whether there are differences in spectrometrically measurable parameters of the fundus between patients with early and late age-related maculopathy (ARM), the children of the ARM patients (F1 generation) and normals.
In approximately 4-10 % of patients presenting with renal cell cancer the transluminal propagation of a tumor thrombus into the vena cava inferior or the right atrium comes to diagnosis.
Recent investigations have indicated that the presence of neoplastic extension into the venous system does not reveal independent prognostic value regarding the clinical course of the disease.
Although the complete surgical removal of vena cava thrombosis in patients without simultaneously occurring regional lymph node or distant metastases has become a well established treatment modality, several questions concerning this surgical strategy still remain the subject of ongoing discussions.
In the present investigation that included 92 patients with renal cell cancer and intracaval neoplastic extension it was clearly demonstrated that the use of cardiopulmonary bypass, deep hypothermia and circulatory arrest preferably during the removal of intracaval thrombosis extending into the right atrium does not result in a substantially increased treatment-related intra- or postoperative mortality.
However, in contrast to a previously reported observation this treatment option did not reveal any substantial impact on the long-term survival of the patients following surgical therapy.
Accordingly, the cranial extension of intracaval thrombosis was not identified as a biological variable of any prognostic importance for renal cell cancer patients.
Vascular surgery or penile prosthesis implantation are the main surgical options for erectile dysfunction.
In this category, penile revascularization is the only causal therapy for selected patients: males younger than 50 years of age at time of surgery, maximum of two risk factors, exclusion of diabetes mellitus.
Long-term success decreased to 53 % to 55 % in comparison to first encouraging reports of 80 % success.
Venous surgery resulted in an even more distinct decline of success the longer the elapse of time after surgery.
Long-term success dropped under 40 %, leaving only a few indications for penile venous ligation.
In contrast, penile prosthesis implantation results in high satisfaction rates.
Despite this, it is not generally recommended as first choice surgical management as it is linked to irreversible damage of the cavernosal bodies.
Among numerous types of penile implants, preference is nowadays mostly given to the three-piece hydraulic models.
However, such complications as defective or perforated cylinders in up to 35 % after 5 years have arisen, depending on the type of implant.
In a selected patient group, vacuum constriction devices with a mean patient acceptance of 75 % (50 % to 90 %) seldom result in complications and are thus considered to be a well-established therapeutical option.
It has been suggested that anhedonia, the loss of pleasure, is associated with a dysfunction of the dopaminergic reward system in schizophrenic and alcohol-dependent patients.
In a series of neuroendocrinological and brain imaging studies, we examined pre- and postsynaptic mechanisms of dopaminergic neurotransmission in non-human primates and in schizophrenic and alcohol-dependent patients.
Among alcoholics, we found indicators of a sensitization of dopaminergic neurotransmission, which was associated with the relapse risk, but not with anhedonia or depression.
Schizophrenics with neuroleptic blockade of striatal dopamine D2 receptors displayed psychomotor slowing and reduced motivation, but not anhedonia.
Primate studies pointed to the importance of a temporo-cortical dysfunction in the pathogenesis of phasic dopaminergic dysregulation in the striatum.
These observations indicate that a dysfunction of stimulus-dependent dopamine release may be associated with motivational deficits caused by a reduction in incentive salience, but not with anhedonia.
Any operation for lung cancer that is planned as curative includes dissection of the lymph nodes in the mediastinum in order to allow correct staging of the disease.
It is well known that ipsilateral lymph node metastases (N2) mean a poor prognosis.
Since most patients with this finding die from metastatic tumor progression within 3 years after the operation, it can be assumed that positive findings in the mediastinal lymph nodes represent generalization of the cancer.
Therefore, the probability of a therapeutic effect from more radical removal of lymph nodes in the mediastinum is rather low.
On the other hand, it is justified to apply and evaluate additional systemic treatment in these tumor stages.
In analogy with high-dose contrast-enhanced CT, there have been a few studies during recent years that have dealt with high-dose paramagnetic contrast dyes in MRI.
One reason for these studies was the development of new and low-osmolar contrast agents in the MR field.
Depending on the clinical problem, a high-dose contrast study in MRI is rarely indicated: (1) in metastatic disease, MR imaging with high-dose contrast material is indicated when the standard dose study is negative or only shows a solitary cerebral lesion or a number of lesions just suitable for radiosurgery; (2) in patients with malignant glioma the high-dose study allows better definition of the tumor margins.
If a radical surgical approach is planned, the diagnostic potential should be fully used; if only a biopsy or subtotal debulking is planned, a standard dose study is enough.
(3) in patients with MS, a high-dose study is only recommended within therapeutic trials in which the number of active plaques is a primary variable.
The basic idea of the Collaborative Family Health Care is nothing new.
It has its roots in the bio-psycho-social model of medicine developed by George Engel in the U.S.A. and it has a long tradition in the German psychosomatic medicine.
At a time of basic changes in our health care system caused by cost considerations owing to the cutting back of resources it is important to note, that Collaborative Family Health Care combines aspects of theoretical models and pragmatic action-orientation.
The basic is a systemic view of illness and health.
The doctor-patient-dyad is in this view enlarged to a treatment-triad composed of the therapist, the patient and his family, to be able to bundle the whole potential at disposal, i.e.
the treatment motivation of the patient, the support of the family and the expertize of the therapist.
A lot of studies support the resource- saving potential of coopertive methods.
However, their realization is not possible without considerable learning processes of physicians, psychotherapists and other  professionals.
A potential has to be mobilized, which affects by no means only the costs.
The Collaborative Family Health Care offers new challenges to the professional culture of psychotherapists and new chances for influencing the world of medical health care.
At a time of obviously reduced professional solidarity, the iniitiatives of CFHC offer a possibility for physicians, patients and their relatives to reach contentment through cooperation.
Interested colleagues are invited to collaborate in the German Section of the CFHC.
We evaluated the short- to mid-term results of an unconstrained total ankle prosthesis (S. T. A. R.) with uncemented fixation.
Fifty consecutive ankle replacements were performed in 48 patients between 1996 and 1999.
The initial diagnosis was posttraumatic osteoarthrosis in 31 cases (62 %), primary osteoarthrosis in 8 cases (16 %), and systemic joint affection in 11 cases (22 %), e. g. rheumatoid arthritis (6 cases), hemochromatosis (2 cases), psoriasis arthritis (1 case), lupus erythematodes (1 case), and sclerodermia (1 case).
There were two perioperative complications: one superficial wound dehiscence that healed uneventfully, and one injury to the dorsal foot artery that necessitated primary reconstruction.
Seven revisions, all in cases of posttraumatic arthrosis, were necessary: local revision of the fibula for painful lateral impingement (3 cases), posteromedial soft tissue revision for painful restriction of dorsiflexion (2 cases), percutaneous lengthening of the Achilles tendon (1 case), and osteotomy and callus distraction for angular correction after stress fracture of the distal tibia (1 case).
At the last follow-up control, 21 patients (62 %) were very satisfied, 10 patients (29 %) were satisfied, and 3 patients (9 %) were satisfied with reservations.
The obtained range of motion was 30  ° (range, 15 to 55  °), with a maximal plantarflexion of 25  ° (range, 15 to 45  °) and dorsiflexion of 5  ° (-3 to 20  °).
When the AOFAS-Hindfoot-Score was applied, the 34 patients scored 84.1 points (range, 44 to 100 points).
After settling of the implants within 6 weeks, no migration was noted in any case, and all implants were considered to be stable.
The favorable results were considered to be a result of the mechanical properties of the S. T. A. R. total ankle prosthesis that allows for unconstrained motion of the polyethylene inlay on the tibial component, e. g. anteroposterior translation, mediolateral translation and axial rotation.
The success of implantation may depend on exact technique, correct hindfoot alignement, sufficient capsuloligamentous stability of the ankle, and a solid bone stock.
Although our first results are very encouraging, a longer follow-up is mandatory to answer the question whether ankle replacement is a viable alternative to ankle arthrodesis.
In a prospective study, the influence of the status of the peri-implant hard and soft tissues on the success of enosseous dental implants in tumor patients was assessed.
Out of 59 tumor patients with 261 implants, treated between July 1988 and August 1996, a pool of 23 patients with 99 implants provided with dentures for at least 1 year was obtained.
Eighteen of these patients suffered from a squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity.
Seventeen patients underwent preoperative radiation (40 Gy).
A total of 68 out of 99 implants were inserted into autologous bone transplanted to reconstruct the mandible.
In order to assess the peri-implant hard and soft tissues, the Hygiene Index, the Sulcus Bleeding Index, the Gingiva Index, the pocket-probing depth, the peri-implant bone resorption, and the periotest were used.
The results in the tumor patients were compared with the results in a pool of nontumor patients.
Tumor patients had significantly worse peri-implant parameters than nontumor patients.
The peri-implant pocket-probing depth proved to have significant influence on the success rate.
The overall success rate was 77.8%.
Many articles in the literature document the fact that postoperative pain therapy has not improved for decades despite new insights into pain physiology, the availability of powerful analgesics and the development of new techniques.
This project was set up to develop practical, effective, safe, and easy to run acute pain therapy.
A 26-year-old man sustained a C2 arc fracture.
Ventral spondylodesis using an H-plate was performed.
The patient developed a pharyngovertebral fistula which remained undetected for 1 year.
Spontaneous fusion of C3/C4 and osteolysis of the cortical block occurred.
The fistula was demonstrated intraoperatively and the implant was transorally removed.
No further problems occurred after this unusual method of treatment.
The anatomy of the cervical spine, special problems of intensive care patients and the use of proper instrumentation are discussed.
An interscalene block of the brachial plexus was combined with general anaesthesia for repair of a complex chronic lesion of the shoulder.
The localisation of the plexus with electro-stimulation and the injection of Bupivacain 0.5% were accomplished easily and without painful sensations.
48 hours later the block was still partially present.
Paraesthesia and a sensory and motor innervation deficit affected mainly the dorsal fascicle, but also areas innervated by the median and lateral fascicles.
The deficit did not completely disappear for 18 month.
The cause could have been due to direct traumatisation during blockade or operation, toxic action of the injected substance (Bupivacain 0,5%, 30 ml), distension of the plexus, a cervical syndrome or an aseptic plexitis, although a definite determination is not possible.
However, the pattern of the lesion and the lack of pain during localisation of the plexus and injection favour traumatisation during the acromioplasty.
Microfilm photography allows documentation of naevi in a map-like fashion.
The localization of multiple naevi is no longer a problem, as one can scan the film.
Comparison of the magnified film with the patient can be done in day-light.
Magnification up to 48 times is possible.
Detection of early changes of the naevi, during the horizontal growth phase, should increase the 5-year survival rate.
In the ancient times, Aristotle, Herophilos, and Galen discovered basic anatomical structures.
Paul von Aegina, in the seventh century a. c., had the idea of a nerve suture, which was first performed in an animal 1000 years later by the Italian surgeon Gabriele Ferrara.
Systematic investigations on nerve crossing date to the beginning of the nineteenth century and were conducted by Jean Pierre Flourens.
Within 1 week in summer 1864, two French surgeons (Laugier and Nélaton) independently carried out the first nerve sutures in humans.
Their observations of an immediate functional recovery of the appropriate muscles after suturing were discussed controversially in scientific circles.
Purpose: To analyze the value of electrophysiologic testing according to standards of the International Society for Clinical Electrophysiology of Vision (ISCEV) in infants less than 10 years of age.
Aggressive angiomyxoma (AAM) is a tumor of the soft tissues predominantely occurring in the genital and pelvic area with a strong propensity to local recurrences.
The entity was first described in 1983.
The tumor is regarded as low-grade sarcoma by some authors; its cause and pathogenesis are presently unknown.
This is a case report on a 27-year-old man who underwent 4 surgical procedures of the left lower extremity because of a recurrent soft tissue neoplasm, initially (August 1993) diagnosed as a myxolipoma.
The patient suffered from recurrences in February 1995, September 1996 and February 1998.
The diagnosis was revised at the time of the latest recurrence.
A palliative resection with macroscopic residuals left was performed in February 1998, followed by a radiation therapy with 56 Gy total dose and a concomitant administration of the radiosensitizer razoxane per os.
The single radiation doses were 200 cGy 5 times a week.
The small residuals of the tumor obviously regressed although an objective response could not be shown because the lesion was not clearly measurable.
A follow-up 2 years after the radiation treatment revealed no recurrence.
The time of the local control achieved as yet is already longer than any former time to regrowth between the surgical procedures.
This is, to our knowledge, the first description of a therapeutic irradiation of a recurrent aggressive angiomyxoma.
Radiation therapy combined with the sensitizer razoxane is able to control a recurrent AAM for an unknown time.
It remains open whether a radiation treatment alone would have had a similar effect.
Micronervereconstruction of motor and sensitive nerves in the head and neck area today has an established range of indications.
Surgical procedures of external and internal neurolyses, nerve coaptation and nerve transplantation techniques are well standardized.
With microneurosurgery of motor nerves, satisfying or good results can be generally obtained.
Success rates exceeding 50% following sensitive nerve reconstructions justify the performance of the procedures, more so because of the subjective improvements for the individual patient.
Perspectives can be seen in further simplification of surgical methods of harvesting nerve grafts, e.g., by development of minimally invasive, eventually endoscopically guided procedures.
Allogenic nerve grafts may also be applied.
Initial experiments with nerve distractions are encouraging.
A better understanding of nerve lesions on cellular and molecular biological levels may improve our knowledge of posttraumatic regulatory procedures and may lead to future possibilities of nonsurgical treatment options for peripheral and central nerve lesions by guided regeneration.
Objective: The acceptance of fibromyalgia as a disease entity and its definitive diagnosis have been hampered by a dearth of knowledge concerning the underlying pathophysiology of this disease and the lack of specific biochemical markers applicable to its diagnosis.
To determine whether abnormal collagen metabolism is a characteristic of fibromyalgia, we have analyzed collagen metabolites in the urine and serum of patients with fibromyalgia.
Methods: The diagnosis of fibromyalgia was made according to the American College of Rheumatology criteria.
Urine and serum were collected under standardized conditions from 39 patients and 55 age- and sex-matched controls.
Pyridinoline (Pyd) and deoxypyridinoline (Dpyd), which represent products of lysyl oxidase-mediated cross-linking in collagen and are indicators of connective tissue and bone degradation, respectively, were analyzed by ion-paired and gradient HPLC method with fluorescence detection (HPLC).
Levels of hydroxypyroline (Hyp), a collagen turnover marker, were also measured.
The findings were related to creatinine levels and the Pyd/Dpyd ratio determined.
The Pyd/Dpyd ratios in the urine and serum and the Hyp in the urine were significantly lower in patients with fibromyalgia than in healthy controls.
Conclusion: Decreased levels of collagen cross-linking may contribute to remodeling of the extracellular matrix and collagen deposition around the nerve fibers in fibromyalgia and contribute to the lower pain threshold at the tender points.
Analysis of altered collagen metabolism either by histologic examination on biopsy or, preferably, by HPLC analysis of collagen metabolites in urine or serum may aid to understand more about the pathogenesis of fibromyalgia.
Background: The dynamic radionuclide nephrography (Tc99m-MAG3) is an important method in the evaluation of obstruction of the upper urinary tract.
The aim of the present study was to assess whether radionuclid nephrography under standardized conditions with adequate hydration and Furosemid induced diuresis can reliably detect a significant obstruction at the pelvi-ureteric junction.
We therefore tested whether minimal tracer washout (10-25%) in the presence of normal renal function could justity a non-operative managment.
The lateral decubitus position is the standard position for nephrectomies.
There is a lack of data about the effects of this extreme position upon respiratory mechanics and gas exchange.
In 20 patients undergoing surgery in the nephrectomy position, we compared a new closed-loop-controlled ventilation algorithm, adaptive lung ventilation (ALV), which adapts the breathing pattern automatically, to the respiratory mechanics with conventionally controlled mandatory ventilation (CMV).
The aims of our study were (1) to describe positioning effects on respiratory mechanics and gas exchange, (2) to compary ventilatory parameters selected by the ALV controller with traditional settings of CMV, and (3) to assess the individual adaptation of the ventilatory parameters by the ALV controller.
The respirator used was a modified Amadeus ventilator, which is controlled by an external computer and possesses an integrated lung function analyzer.
In a first set of measurements, we compared parameters of respiratory mechanics and gas exchange in the horizontal supine position and 20 min after changing to the nephrectomy position.
In a second set of measurements, patients were ventilated with ALV and CMV using a randomized crossover design.
The CMV settings were a tidal volume of 10 ml/kg body weight, a respiratory rate of 10 breaths/min, an I:E ratio of 1:1.5, and an end-inspiratory pause of 30% of inspiratory time.
With both ventilation modes FiO2 was set to 0.5 and PEEP to 3 cm H2O.
During ALV a desired alveolar ventilation of 70 ml/kg KG - min was preset.
All other ventilatory parameters were determined by the ALV controller according to the instantaneously measured respiratory parameters.
Positioning induced a reduction of compliance from 61.6 to 47.9 ml/cm H2O; the respiratory time constant shortened from 1.2 to 1.08 s, whereas physiological dead space increased from 158.9 to 207.5 ml.
On average, the ventilatory parameters selected by the ALV controller resembled very closely those used with CMV.
However, an adaptation to individual respiratory mechanics was clearly evident with ALV.
In conclusion, we found that the effects of positioning for nephrectomy are minor and may give rise to problems only in patients with restrictive lung disease.
The novel ALV controller automatically selects ventilatory parameters that are clinically sound and are better adapted to the respiratory mechanics of ventilated patients than the standardized settings of CMV are.
Noma is an ulcerative-necrotizing gingivo-stomatitis eventually leading to severe destruction of the midface, including lips and cheek, maxilla/mandible, nose and rarely the orbit.
The defects are usually unilateral.
Children from economically underdeveloped countries are predominantly affected.
Medically untreated the disease has a high mortality rate, which can be dramatically lowered by adequate antibiotic therapy started in time.
Predisposing factors include malnourishment, immunosuppression, and poor oral hygiene.
Forty-eight noma patients were surgically treated in Sokoto, Nigeria during October 1997 by an Interplast Germany team sponsored by AWD Stiftung Kinderhilfe.
Interdisciplinary surgical strategies and results, e. g. ankylosis release, local flap coverage and 12 pedicled musculocutaneous latissimus dorsi island flaps, as well as a noma classification (NOMAC), are presented.
During a period of 3 years, four controled clinical studies in 34 patients with hypercholesterolaemia and 40 healthy persons - in some cases with stratification of the basic cholesterol levels and matched pair formation - were performed to find out the effects of serial sun-like UV irradiation on various serum parameters and blood circulation functions.
The following significant effects were observed.
Patients with hypercholesterolaemia: increase of HDL cholesterol after termination of the serial UV irradiation, increase of serum 25 (OH)D3 levels, decrease of serum triiodothyronine, decrease of serum lactate; healthy persons: decrease of resting pulse rate, decrease of recovery pulse rate, decrease of systolic blood pressure.
All effects were induced by application of suberythematous UV doses, i.e.
amounts of UV with a relatively low risk of side effects.
In 1998 Minor et al.
described a new variant of perilymphatic fistula: the "superior canal dehiscence syndrome".
This syndrome is clinically characterized by recurrent attacks of vertigo and oscillopsia induced by loud noises or stimuli that result in changes in intracranial or middle ear pressure.
It is caused by a dehiscence of bone overlying the superior (anterior) semicircular canal.
Due to this dehiscence, a third, mobile window (in addition to the round and oval windows) is formed, and changes in pressure are pathologically transduced to the anterior semicircular canal.
In the present study we evaluated proprioceptive capabilities of the knee joint with a balance test and correlated these findings to parameters which document mechanical stability.
We compared 8 conservatively treated and 12 surgically treated patients with ACL-deficient knee joints with a control group of 12 subjects.
The balance test was performed with a Kistler force plate.
Both the conservatively treated and the surgically treated patients showed significantly higher deviations of their centre of gravity than the control group.
This was true not only for the injured leg but also for the noninjured contralateral leg.
The differences were most remarkable when comparing the entire distance of centre of gravity deviations during 10 s. Additionally, the conservatively treated patients interrupted the test procedure significantly more frequently than the other two groups.
We were not able to document any correlation between proprioceptive function and parameters for joint stability such as anterior drawer, Lachman, pivot shift and KT-1000 measurements.
The study examined the validity of psychometric measures for the assessment of driving ability in brain-damaged subjects.
116 patients with brain damage mainly of vascular and traumatic origin underwent  extensive neuropsychological examinations emphasizing attentional performance and visual perceptual speed and participated in a comprehensive on-road driving test.
Only 58% of the patients passed the driving test.
Attempts to predict the outcome of the driving test by discriminant analysis or cut-off procedures based on neuropsychological and/or other subject-related data yielded a maximum of 73% correct predictions.
In view of the frequent impairment in driving ability after brain damage and in view of the failure to reliably predict driving ability from psychometric test results, it is recommended that in each case an on-road driving test is given.
In the planning of laser surgery for ENT operations, the specialist is often consulted by the anesthesiologist to predict possible intubation problems.
Intubation problems in such operations can occur frequently due to the pathological findings present in the upper aerodigestive tract and the different constructions of laser-resistant endotracheal tubes.
The aim of this study was to determine if a known predictive parameter could have a sufficient sensitivity and specificity to reliably predict possible intubation problems for ENT-related laser surgery.
In a prospective study, 91 patients were included and the Mallampati-score modified by Samsoon and Young was analyzed and compared to a score describing the actual conditions of intubation.
The results showed a significant correlation (p <0.05, Chi-Square test).
However, the specificity was only 72% and the sensitivity of 60% was too low to be of practical use.
The results were independent of the endotracheal tube used.
Although use of the laser for ENT operations provides a special situation for the anesthesiologist, there is still no system that is sensitive and specific enough to be of practical use.
This problem is demonstrated in a literature  review.
The treatment of patients with deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism with contraindications for a thrombolytic therapy is a therapeutic challenge.
We report on a 12 year old patient who was treated for large cell lymphoma according to NHL-BFM 95: Block AA protocol.
During his therapy, he developed a thrombosis of his right femoral vein and pulmonary embolism affecting the left segments 4, 5, 8, and 9.
Because of cerebral metastasis a fibrinolytic therapy was contraindicated.
Therefore, we performed a mechanical thrombectomy using the Amplatz thrombectomy device.
The postinterventional scintigraphy showed a markedly improved pulmonary perfusion; dopplersonography 4 months postinterventionally showed a patent right femoral vein.
Within this chapter, tumors which produce bone matrix (osteoid) or other bone-forming tissues, like cartilage, connective tissue, and cementum or originate within the bone marrow are described.
In addition, those lesions are mentioned which, according to the WHO, are typical for the jawbones and are therefore included within the 1992 WHO classification of odontogenic tumors.
Vascular and epithelial tumors which may also be observed in the jaws are not described.
All the lesions and tumors reported have in common a more or less similar clinical and radiological appearance.
A precise diagnosis, therefore, can only be established by a sufficient biopsy which should be seen by a pathologist with experience in this field.
In addition to clinical, radiological, and histological appearances, therapeutic necessities are described.
The data from recent publications are taken into account.
This presentation is based on the data collected within the reference registry of the German-Austrian-Swiss Study Group of Tumors of the Face and Jaws (DÖSAK) in Basel.
Between 1987 and 1996 302 patients were treated for colorectal liver metastases.
Out of this pool 252 completely documented cases were analysed.
Forty-five patients (18 %) of this population were 70 years or older at time of admission.
In this population 17 major resections and 8 minor liver resections were performed.
In 9 patients irresectable metastases were diagnosed during treatment of the primary tumor.
In 3 cases laparotomy had to be finished as exploration.
Eight patients were treated without surgery.
Mortality after liver resection was 4 %, morbidity 28 %.
The 5-year-survival-rate (Kaplan-Meier) of the R0 resected patients (n = 21) was 44 %.
Comparison between the elderly patients and the younger population shows no significant differences in type and extent of treatment or in stage of disease.
Survival, morbidity and mortality after liver resection also show no significant differences.
These results show that even in elderly patients liver resection for colorectal metastases can be performed efficently and with a curative intention.
The clinical course of 12 patients with mushroom poisoning was evaluated in order to define the parameters considered to be relevant to the indication for liver transplantation.
Eight patients recovered under conservative therapy; one patient died due to pre-existing, concomitant cardiopulmonary disease.
In three patients transplantations had to be performed because of severe liver failure.
On admission, the transplanted patients had a decreased Quick's test score and factor V value (< 10 %).
The peak of liver enzymes, serum bilirubin, serum creatinine, partial thromboplastin time and azotemia were not of any prognostic value.
Main indications for liver transplantation were a very low initial Quick's test score and factor V value (both < 10 %) and their inadequate response under substitution therapy.
The development of encephalopathy and renal failure were further parameters indicating poor prognosis.
During submaximal isotonic back extension loading (31 male persons) surface-EMG was measured using 16 monopolar-linked electrodes in the low back region (L 3-S 1).
By means of modification of amplitude- and frequency parameters in the EMG-signal two subject groups (6 persons each) with the slightest and most severe muscle fatigue in the paraspinal region were defined.
For the analysis of muscle coordination, the EMG signal on the basis of an amplitude estimate at the beginning and at the end of the load situation was compared.
During the extension phase, the group with slight fatigability showed no different spatial pattern of myoelectrical activity at the end of investigation than at the beginning.
In contrast to this, the pattern of myoelectrical activity changed during the endurance test in the group of persons with considerable fatigability.
Therefore, in addition to the muscular fatigue also the loss of muscle coordination has to be taken into account in the assessment of spinal function.
Background: A fractional flow reserve (FFRmyo) <0.75 is a well validated parameter for significance of coronary stenoses in cases of normal myocardial function.
We used the FFRmyo limit in patients with impaired myocardial perfusion by myocardial infarction and/or hypertension for intermediate stenoses of the LAD for decision to PTCA and checked the indication by clinical follow-up.
Distraction osteogenesis of the mandible is one treatment option in mandibular hypoplasia.
Usually, a non-continuous distraction mode is applied.
The aim of the present study was to establish continuous bone distraction using a microhydraulic cylinder.
Using a submandibular approach, the mandible was dissected subperiostally on one side in four mini-pigs; corticotomy was performed and the microhydraulic cylinder fixed with two bicortical screws.
The hydraulic tube was connected with an automatic hydropneumatic injector system.
Following 7 days at rest, a continuous distraction of 1.5 mm per day was performed for 14 days.
After 2 and 4 weeks postoperatively, the animals were killed and X-rays taken.
The mandible was then removed en bloc and microscopic evaluation of the sections was performed.
The microhydraulic cylinder was easy to apply and to handle.
The continuous stimulus did induce direct mineralisation of longitudinal oriented collagenous fibre bundles.
Bony regeneration seems to be accelerated, which might reduce the postoperatively stabilizing phase.
The duration of spinal anaesthesia in infants is short compared to adult patients.
When tetracaine is used, the addition of epinephrine significantly prolongs the duration.
For bupivacaine, however, the influence of epinephrine on the duration is not clear.
We investigated the effects of epinephrine 1: 200 000 added to bupivacaine 0.5% on duration and haemodynamics.
Ten former pre-term infants with postnatal respiratory problems, scheduled for bilateral inguinal hernia repair, were enrolled in the study after informed parental consent had been obtained.
The infants were fasted at least 4 h prior to surgery.
If they did not receive i.v.
infusions before surgery, a bolus of 10 ml/kg Ringer's acetate was injected after inserting the i.v.
cannula, followed by a continuous infusion of 8 ml/kg 2/3 N NaCl with 5% dextrose.
Spinal anaesthesia was performed in a sitting position with 0.6 ml bupivacaine 0.5%.
Five patients received plain bupivacaine (group I) and five bupivacaine with epinephrine 1: 200 000 (group II).
Heart rate registered by ECG and non-invasive blood pressure were recorded prior to positioning the baby for lumbar puncture and 2, 5, 10, and 20 min after injection of bupivacaine.
The duration of spinal anaesthesia was defined as the time from injection to the time when the first movements of the legs were observed after stimulation.
For testing statistical differences the U test was used between the groups and the Wilcoxon and Wilcox test within the groups.
Results (expressed as median and range).
Additional epinephrine significantly prolonged the duration of spinal anaesthesia (group II: 95 min [60 - 120] vs group I: 50 min [37 - 85]).
Haemodynamic parameters did not differ at any time between or within the groups.
In group I, one infant had high spinal anaesthesia with impaired respiration but without cardiovascular effects; after 10 min of assisted ventilation by mask, sufficient respiration as judged by pulse oximetry and clinical observation had returned.
The duration of spinal anaesthesia in this child was 60 min.
Epinephrine 1: 200 000 significantly prolongs the duration of spinal anaesthesia in former preterm infants.
Haemodynamic parameters in this age group remain unchanged during spinal anaesthesia and are not influenced by the addition of epinephrine.
Purpose: Debate about the potential implementation of Spiral-CT in diagnostic algorithms of pulmonary embolism are often focussed on sensitivity and specificity in the context of comparative methodologic studies.
We intend to investigate whether additional factors might influence this debate.
Familial dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) should be an "evidence-based" diagnosis derived from clinical and echocardiographic screening of informed and consenting relatives of index patients, and on the examination of clinical reports for deceased relatives.
Most familial dilated cardiomyopathy pedigrees show an autosomal pattern of inheritance.
Very few of them are X-linked and matrilinear.
Autosomal recessive inheritance is difficult to be assessed in an evidence-based setting.
By linkage analysis, several loci, but no disease gene, have been identified.
At present, few cases of familial dilated cardiomyopathy can benefit of a molecular diagnosis.
As the results of the structural reform policy regulating the health care sector, the paper presents the possible path of increasing intrasectoral risk selection and intersectoral risk externalization (especially between the law of health care insurance, the law of statutory nursing inusrance, and the German poverty law).
Particularly the new developments in the hospital sector will be analzyed regarding the dynamics of risk selection and risk externalization.
The new economic ways of financing the hospital sector are inducing the need of systematic integration of the different branches of social law, especially more developed networks of the health care, the nursing system, and the social care services.
Purpose: The inactive form of pyruvatekinase could be established in different tumours.
Purpose of this study was to demonstate the presence or absence of the inactive form of pyruvatekinase in renal cell carcinoma, metastases and benign renal tissue by immunohistology.
Introduction: The hemodynamic parameters of 95 patients undergoing maxillary or bimaxillary orthognathic surgery in 1996 and 1997 at the Department of OMF Surgery/Plastic Surgery, Krefeld, Germany, were analyzed retrospectivly to study the effect of intraoperative blood loss.
Materials and methods: The parameters included the blood loss volume, age, weight and sex of the patients, the mode of osteotomy and the operation time, the surgeon, the average blood pressure, the infusion volume, the anesthesiologist, the thrombocyte counts and their function, the activity of the coagulation factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, XIII and von-Willebrand-factor, and the pathological coagulation factor counts of each patient, the rate of autologous blood donation and the rate of retransfusion.
Statistical analysis was done using the Speraman-Rho-test.
Results: The average blood loss during maxillary osteotomy was 670  +/-  380 ml and during bimaxillary surgery 1120  +/-  510 ml.
Men lost about 300 ml more than women.
Operations of more than 3.5 h in length led to a blood loss of 1200  +/-  520 ml as opposed to 670  +/-  310 ml.
The average blood loss among various surgeons was between 670 ml and 1180 ml of various anesthesiologists between 730 ml and 1200 ml, without statistical evidence.
Some 17.9% of patients showed pathological thrombocytic function concerning medication with aspirin; 34.7% had pathological activities of coagulation factors, but only 2.1% with clinical significance.
Conclusion: Mode of operation, maxillary or bimaxillary, und length of operation were the most significant factors of intraoperative blood loss.
Patients with pathological coagulation had nearly the same rate of blood loss as patients with physiological coagulation.
In most cases this was determined by restriction of aspirin.
Analysis of the rate of autologous blood retransfusion showed a significant correlation to blood loss in bimaxillary surgery.
Maxillary osteotomy led to a retransfusion of only 14.2% of autologous blood unit.
This should be reviewed critically especially concerning costs.
Purpose: Course and pathophysiology of a typical syndrome after irradiation of the cauda equina were studied.
Wells' syndrome (eosinophilic cellulitis) is a rare inflammatory skin disease of unknown etiology and pathogenesis.
Only 18 cases in childhood have been reported.
We report on a 5-year-old girl who showed the typical biphasic and recurrent course of the disease: initially edematous-cellulitic lesions associated with blisters, followed by morphea-like changes on the extremities.
Eosinophilia of peripheral blood was apparent, which, however, was not correlated with the severity of the current condition.
After a recurrent course for 4 months and intermittent systemic administration of antibiotics (on the assumption of erysipelas and phlegmon) and glucocorticosteroids, the disease healed without sequelae.
Trigger factors or systemic hematologic malignancy could not be detected.
Diskussion: Wells' syndrome is probably more common than believed and should be included in the differential diagnosis of urticarial, morphea-like and bullous eruptions in childhood.
In 1996, several employees of the French governmental organization for Blood Collection and Transfusions (CNTS) have been condemned by ordinary courts.
They were found guilty in the affair on HIV-infected blood transfusions.
Over 3800 persons, mostly hemophiliacs, have been infected in France and suffer from HIV disease.
Many of them died already.
The public in France urgently demanded the condemnation of the persons who were politically responsible for the time delay that postponed the introduction of HIV-tests for blood donations in France.
Such a test was available from the american company ABBOTT in the early 1985, but the french authorities preferred to wait for the HIV-Test from Pasteur-Diagnostics.
A special court, the "Court de Justice de la République", authorized to judge on members of  the governement, has been created by the French Parliament on Nov. 23, 1993.
Six years later, the three politicians, the former Prime Minister Laurent Fabius, the minister for  Social Affairs, Mme Georgina Dufoix, and  her undersecretary of state for health, Mr.  Edmond Hervé, have been accused of involuntary homicide.
March, 9, 1999, after five weeks of deliberations and statements, the CJR rendered his sentence: The former Prime Minister Laurent Fabius and the Minister  G. Dufoix were discharged, but the secretary of state for health, Edmond Hervé, has been declared guilty.
However, also Mr. Hervé could leave the court room as a free person, because the President of the Court, Mr. Christian Le Gunehec, didn't want to pronounce a judgement against him, as Mr. Hervé had to suffer from almost 15 years of public  critics and attacks before he was found guilty.
The hemophiliacs and other AIDS-patients as well as their families protested loudly against this judgement.
They plan to file charges against the three ministers through a common court to hold them responsible.
Classical insight therapy, derived from Freud, and `maternal' holding therapy, derived from Balint, Winnicott and others, are two contrasting treatment techniques in psychoanalysis.
The authors believe that each of these two techniques presupposes specific philosophical basic assumptions about the nature of human beings.
The position of Freud is that of the basically traumatic character of human experience.
The contra-position of the object relation psychologists stipulates the priority of love in human experience.
These assumptions seem to be more latent than overt guidelines of therapeutical techniques and therefore their reconstruction and reformulation have important implications for psychoanalytical therapy.
Univentricular hearts represent rare complex cardial malformations.
We report a case of a 34-year old male with single ventricle, two atria, tricuspid atresia, large atrial septal defect, complete transposition and pulmonary valvar stenosis.
There were no signs of chronic pulmonary hypertension.
Intensive clinical analysis of the cardiac malformation was first performed at the age of five years.
Conclusion was that the patient would have no benefit from operation.
The patient had nearly normal live conditions with a profession, family and some sportive activities like squash.
He died of sudden cardiac death.
The malformation was examined by sequential segmental analysis and in comparison with the embryonic development.
Clinical picture, prognosis and therapy are reported from literature.
During the last years development of cardiac surgery achieved good results.
Special morphologic constellations, as in our case, may be the reason that conservative therapy can be sufficient for prolonged survival with good quality of life.
The assessment and measurement of pain is essential in the implementation and control of pain relieving strategies.
The measurement of pain in infants and children should be based on the consideration of age, cognitive level, psychological status, intercurrent diseases and the social context in order to register the child's individual situation and to avoid misinterpretation.
From its origin to its death the human organism is submitted to functional, material and morphological changes that are perceptible.
These changes permit classifying an individual as young, adult, old, active or infirm.
But this estimation is not always correct.
Some appear younger, some older than expected from their chronological age.
But what is ageing and how can it be measured?
For this, so-called markers or biological markers of ageing are used which are measurable indicators of ageing in live organisms.
A description of the complexity, the asynchronous course and the biological variety and variability of biological age is less successful with a single indicator than with the inclusion of several markers in a multi-factorial measuring system, in a so-called test battery.
Various test batteries have already been applied in numerous studies that consist of biochemical scans, mental and also social parameters in different combinations.
A more precise description of such a test battery can be seen in the following discussion of the ILSE study.
The documentation form for pathohistologic findings (version III) for tumors of the maxillofacial region is presented.
It is part of the site-specific documentation of the German Association of Tumor Centers (ADT).
Its handling is explained by instructions which are based on the ICD-O classification and the TNM system.
The prognostic relevance of the standardized documentation has already been proven by various histomorphologic investigations concerning oral and oropharyngeal cancer.
By means of a multicentric observational study the German Austrian Swiss co-operative group DÖSAK will develop a new prognostic model for oral and oropharyngeal cancer.
The development of a middle ear cholesteatoma is usually associated with chronic inflammation and displacement of the mucosa present by the invading squamous epithelium.
To analyze the clinically different behaviors of both epithelia, we used immunohistochemical methods to study the distribution and expression of interleukin-1 (Il-1), transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-), epidermal growth factor (EGF), epidermal growth factor-receptor (EGF-R), the proliferation marker MIB 1, c-myc proto-oncogene product and activation marker 4F2.
Results stromal that keratinocytes in a cholesteatoma exhibited a much higher activation and proliferation rate when compared to middle ear mucosa cells.
Middle ear epithelial cells showed no immunoreactivity for TGF-alpha, EGF-R, Il-1 and c-myc in contrast to the markedly positive immunoreactivity found in cholesteatoma matrix.
The local release of cytokines and growth factors, such as TGF-alpha, EGF and Il-1 by inflammatory cells seems to be an important factor for the hyperproliferative behavior of cholesteatoma epithelium.
Our findings could contribute to the pathogenesis of middle ear cholesteatoma and give a possible explanation for the sustained progression of its growth leading to displacement of the middle ear mucosa.
The role of hip sonography in neonatal hip screening is still a controversial matter.
This paper reports the results of the Austrian ultrasound hip screening program, in which all Austrian babies undergo hip sonography twice: at the birth clinic during the 1st week of life and at an age of 12-16 weeks.
Data from all public health insurance companies since 1985 and all ICD data about children hospitalized because of CDH in Austria were collected and analyzed.
The rate of sonographically pathological hips was 6.57 % (1994).
The treatment rate before introduction of hip sonography was 13.16 % (1985).
The rate of open reduction went down to 0.24 per 1000 newborns, including a high number of unscreened children born abroad and also children with teratological dislocation of the hip.
Hip sonography screening proved to be effective in detecting true instability of the hip joint as well as dysplasia.
The optimal time for sonographic screening does not seem to be immediately after birth when only "high risk" hips (clinical instability, positive family history, breech delivery) should undergo hip sonography, but at an age between 4 and 6 weeks when the hip has already shown its true nature.
Since one sonographic scan appears to be sufficient for screening, a further reduction of costs could be accomplished.
Disability owing to DDH can be avoided in a number of cases, and costs for conservative and surgical treatment as well as for later endoprostheses and early retirement can be economized.
Transactional analysis (Berne 1958) in its original concepts was intended to help even lay people to understand personal structures and psychodynamic processes.
This intention lead some of the following authors to superficiality and a "happy-go-lucky" perspective.
Others, most of all European transactional analysts went back to the roots of the original contents and aims and showed that they offer great clinical relevance for the understanding and treatment of a variety of disturbances.
This article will illustrate these aspects, using the borderline syndrome as an example.
The structural model of egostates serves to describe the borderline structure, concepts of the frame of reference and the script as patterns for the development and maintenance of the pathology, the concepts of transactions, games, symbioses and passivity as indicators for the stable instability of the relationships, and devaluations and grandiosities as examples of defence patterns.
Practical ideas about the therapeutic contract as a basis of various working agreements, about methods of decreasing anxiety in therapeutic processes, and about contact and attachment as a substrate for corrective experiences, a healing atmosphere and dedramatisation of the process follow.
The article ends with transactional analytic considerations of transference, counter-transference and how to deal with regression processes.
After separation of symblepharons in ocular pemphigoid, transplantation of nasal or bucal mucosa is recommended to prevent recurrent lid fusion; however, it is not always successful.
The disturbance of generalized cheerfulness (serene-calmness disorder) is an illness, which is often recognised very late.
It is characterised by a uniformity of psychic experience in the face of circumstances which would otherwise give cause for depressiveness, despair, great anxiety, self-accusations or aggression directed against others.
Early diagnosis and specific therapy may decisively improve life-quality of the patients and may also prevent detrimental individual and social long-term consequences.
Disturbances of microcirculation in coronary artery disease can be seen in the presence of critical stenosis of epicardial coronary arteries, as a result of endothelial dysfunction in the absence of significant stenosis or during recovery of ischaemic myocardium after successful angioplasty of stenosed or occluded coronary arteries.
Diagnostic methods are morphologic/morphometric analyses, measurement of the global coronary reserve, measurement of the regional coronary microcirculation (scintigraphy, positron emission tomography) and laboratory analysis of haemorheological alterations (plasma, erythrocytes, leucocytes).
After successful angioplasty, normalisation of glutamate extraction rate takes three to six months.
In patients with unstable angina, changes in plasma viscosity, erythrocyte aggregation and neutrophil activation occur.
Neutrophils are activated after successful angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction and even after elective angioplasty (when measured in the coronary sinus).
Therapeutic improvements of disturbed microvascular flow can be obtained by increasing perfusion pressure (by revascularisation, nitrates, calcium antagnoists, physical training), by improving the fluidity of the blood and by reducing the extravascular component of coronary vascular resistance (by antihypertensive treatment).
Intracytoplasmic injection of sperm (ICSI) extracted from testicular tissue (TESE) represents the only possibility for men with non-obstructive azoospermia to father a child.
ICSI is also the only treatment for men with obstructive azoospermia if microsurgery is not possible or not successful.
However, approximately only every fifth treatment cycle leads to a pregnancy.
Thus, in most cases, several treatment cycles have to be performed to achieve a pregnancy and therefore testicular biopsies have to be taken several times.
Cryopreservation of testicular tissue offers the possibility to store testicular tissue for several treatment cycles of in vitro fertilization (IVF) and to detach surgical sperm retrieval in the man and infertility treatment in the woman (ovarian stimulation, ovum pick-up, embryo transfer).
For the man, cryopreservation offers the advantage that only one testicular biopsy has to be performed for diagnostic reasons and for sperm retrieval.
The advantage for the women is that infertility treatment is started only if testicular histology confirms spermatids, at least in the testicular tissue.
The cumulative pregnancy rate of IVF/ICSI/TESE-cycles can be increased by cryopreservation of supernumerary pronuclear stage oocytes and embryo transfer after thawing in successive cycles.
This study gives a survey of the publications of articles about the care of the newborn around 1900.
A main paediatric and obstetric journal (Archiv für Kinderheilkunde, Archiv für Gynäkologie) from the turn of the century were analysed including the years 1885-1910.
Purpose: To compare electron beam CT (EBCT) und prospectively ECG gated conventional CT for the detection and quantification of coronary artery calcifications.
In Europe, saprophytic pulmonary aspergillosis represents the only mycotic infection relevant for thoracic surgery.
From the pathogenetic point of view, it is a colonization of preexisting lung or pleural cavities following other severe pulmonary diseases.
The incidence amounts to 0.4% among patients in a special hospital for pulmonary diseases.
Concerning this review, the diagnosis is based on histologic examination for all 66 patients we operated on between 1961 and 1996.
Preoperative proof of the fungal infection remains difficult.
The majority of patients (77%) are male.
There is a correlation between cigarette smoking and abuse of alcohol on the one hand and the incidence of the disease on the other hand.
A higher incidence of saprophytic pulmonary aspergillosis was found for people working in agriculture, in the building trade, and in paper mills.
Pulmonary tuberculosis and pneumonia were present in the past history in 47% of the patients.
Usually, the tentative diagnosis is based on chest x-ray, especially if hemoptysis is present.
Major hemoptysis is the most severe and most dangerous complication caused by aspergilloma.
Clinical presentation and chest x-ray findings are non-characteristic.
Nowadays, the typical x-ray of pulmonary aspergilloma, almost always localized in the upper lobes, became a rare finding.
If an aspergillus infection is suspected, serologic methods are reliable and sensitive.
A surgical procedure is absolutely indicated in patients with major hemoptysis in their history, in case of disease progression or indeterminate mass and in order to avoid fungal dissemination.
If a saprophytic aspergillosis is suspected according to radiologic findings, clinical examination, and patient's social history, an operation is justified.
Relative surgical indications are hepatotoxic and carcinogenic effects of the mycotoxins.
The lobectomy, if necessary carried out as pleuro-lobectomy, is the adequate resection in most patients (68%).
However, this operation is technically demanding and it usually requires a longer operating time as compared to lobectomies for other underlying diseases.
Peri- and postoperative complications occur in 60% of resections for pulmonary aspergilloma.
A higher incidence of postoperative complications was found for smaller resections, like segmentectomies or wedge resections, as compared to lobectomies.
Persistent pleural space problems connected with a prolonged stay in the hospital remains the main problem.
It requires a primary or secondary thoracoplasty in a number of patients.
The operative mortality rate is 3%.
A systemic antifungal therapy is not an appropriate treatment for saprophytic pulmonary aspergillosis and can even cause specific complications.
Introduction: Postoperative delirium is a common psychic disturbance occurring acutely after various surgical procedures and typically presenting with a fluctuating course.
These patients' recovery takes longer.
In this study we analyze the incidence of postoperative delirium in patients undergoing vascular surgery and try to identify risk factors for its development.
Methods: Patients undergoing elective arterial operations were included.
Their medical history, the specific vascular diagnosis and operation performed, the medication and laboratory data were monitored.
Additionally the patients were preoperatively interviewed by a psychiatrist.
Intraoperatively the drugs, infusions, possible transfusions, blood gases and pressures were monitored, as were the times of surgery and anesthesia.
Postoperatively patients were seen daily by the psychiatrist and the surgeon for at least 7 days.
Postoperative delirium was diagnosed according to DSM IV criteria, and mild, moderate and severe delirium were distinguished.
Results: Fifty-four patients entered the study.
Twenty-one (38.9 %) developed postoperative delirium (11 mild, 2 moderate, 8 severe).
Patients with aortic operations developed delirium more frequently than those with non-aortic procedures(55.5 vs 22.2 %, n = 27 each).
Some preexisting diseases (hearing disturbance) increased the probability of postoperative delirium, while age was not identified as a risk factor.
General psychopathological and depressive disturbances increased the likelihood of postoperative delirium.
Patients who had a severe intraoperative course developed postoperative delirium more frequently.
This was not seen in the absolute time of surgery or anesthesia nor in the intraoperative development of blood pressure or intraarterial gases, which did not differ between patients with and without postoperative delirium.
More reliable parameters were an increased intraoperative need for crystalloid volume, intra - or postoperatively decreased hemoglobin values (Hb < 10 g/dl) and the development of acidosis that had to be treated.
Patients with delirium had serious complications more often (8/21 = 38.1 % vs 6/33 = 18.2 %) and needed Intensive Care treatment longer (2.7 vs 2.1 days, only aortic surgery 3.2 vs 2.4 days).
Conclusions: Postoperative delirium after vascular surgery is frequent.
Patients undergoing aortic surgery, with specific concomittant medical disease, psychopathological disturbances and a severe intraoperative course, are at risk of developing postoperative delirium.
This report summarizes our experiences with the subjective visual vertical (SVV) as a clinical neuro-otological tool.
In the SVV test, patients have to orient a dim light bar in an otherwise dark surrounding earth-vertical, using a remote-control.
Normal subjects in an upright position did not deviate more than 2 ° from true vertical.
After vestibular neurectomy, the SVV was consistently tilted by some 12 ° toward the affected ear.
Smaller tilts (~7 °) of the SVV occured in patients with spontaneous peripheral vestibular diseases.
This shift in SVV disappeared within weeks to months, similar to the spontaneous nystagmus.
After stapes surgery slight deviations of the SVV towards the unoperated ear were seen in about 20% of the patients, indicating a slight irritation of the otolith organs.
Assessed in an upright position, the SVV thus may be regarded as reflecting tonic otolithic input differences between the two ears.
Introduction: Vocal cord paralysis is a important complication in thyroid gland surgery.
A prospective study was conducted ascertain the frequency of laryngeal nerve palsy not caused by surgical trauma.
Patients and Methods: Two hundred and ten patients were investigated laryngoscopically pre- and postoperatively after short-term intubation in the course of operations far removed from thorax or neck region.
We noted the inner diameter of the tube, intubation problems, the qualification of the anaesthesiologist and the positioning of the patient.
Results: Preoperatively we found previously unknown unilateral laryngeal nerve palsy in 1.9 % of cases.
Postoperatively there were pathological findings of vocal cords in 13 patients (6.2 %).
In 10 patients a direct lesion (oedema, rubor, haematoma, granuloma) was established.
Three patients (1.4 %) were found to have a movement disorder caused by a neural lesion without morphological findings, leading to restitutio ad integrum in two of three cases after 6 months.
Conclusion: The frequency of intubation-related recurrent nerve palsy is 1.4 % transiently and 0.5 % permanently.
Preoperative laryngoscopic investigation of vocal cords should be carried out before intubation.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) and type 2 (HSV-2) are the most frequent infections cause of genital ulcerations.
Although genital infections by HSV-1 are increasing HSV-2 is dominant in recurrent infections.
This study was conducted on a panel of sera collected anonymously in 1996 and 1997 from blood donors (1979 samples) and hospital patients (3079 samples) without risk factors for herpesvirus infections such as STD, other infectious diseases and immunosuppression.
Serum samples were tested with ELISAs using monoclonal antibody-selected native gG1 and gG2 as antigens and an immunoblot using type-specific recombinant glycoproteins.
Equivocal results were confirmed with an in-house Western blot.
This study investigates the effects of acamprosate, a glutamatergic modulator, and the lipid peroxidation inhibitor U-101033E on neurological outcome following incomplete cerebral ischemia and reperfusion in rats.
We report on three family members suffering from both autosomal dominant Hailey-Hailey disease and bipolar affective disorder.
As molecular biology techniques have made the localization of genes causing simple Mendelian traits possible as a routine task, the gene for Hailey-Hailey disease will presumably be localized in the foreseeable future.
The Hailey-Hailey gene and its chromosomal surrounding will then be a region of interest for linkage studies in bipolar affective disorder.
Background: Osteoporotic fractures occur frequently also in men.
Epidemiologic data from Germany indicate that more than 900,000 men are affected by osteoporotic fractures.
Diagnosis and therapy of male osteoporosis are hampered by a lack of clinical studies.
Recurrent headaches and recurrent abdominal pain (RAP) are the most common pain syndromes in childhood: The prevalence of tension headache amounts to 20-50 %, of migraine to 5-7 % and of RAP to 15-30 %.
In nearly 50 % of children the complaints persist over many years of their life-span.
The unfavourable long-term prognosis support the indication of early and specific interventions.
Empirical findings on the etiology, pathogenesis, and pathophysiology are still very limited.
Actual approaches suggest to understand recurrent pain syndromes as a complex and multidimensional disturbance, and in this context there is strong evidence for the major importance of psychosocial influences.
The behavioral-medicine proceeding bases upon an extensive family anamnestic exploration and symptom analysis.
The psychological interventions applied in clinical practice include prophylaxis (stress inoculation, cognitive redefinition, problem solving), reduction of pain symptoms (relaxation, distraction, imagination) and environmental modification (parental reinforcement and modeling behavior).
During the last years there has been an increasing trend to create more complex and multidimensional behavioral pain management programs for children.
The aim of our study was to develop noninvasive stereotactic radiotherapy for patients with choroidal metastases.
Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) is standard therapy for urolithiasis.
With comparable technical principles, various lithotripters have been developed and are in routine use.
Renal pelvic stones, calyceal stones, ureteral stones, and other special forms can be treated with varying results.
Currently, the so-called clinically insignificant residual fragments and the recurrence of calculi are under discussion.
Whereas the side effects of ESWL are well known, studies comparing ESWL with other endourological procedures are still lacking.
Suramin has long been used in the treatment of onchocerciasis and trypanosomiasis.
Recent investigations showed an antiproliferative effect of suramin on prostate carcinoma cell lines.
Ongoing clinical trials have confirmed the effect of suramin on metastasizing prostate carcinoma.
Five patients with metastatic prostate carcinoma resistant to classic hormonal therapy were treated with high-dose suramin.
Four of the five developed a papulovesicular or maculopapular rash within 2 - 4 weeks of starting therapy.
The rashes disappeared after discontinuation of suramin within 10 days.
In tumour therapy, high dosages of suramin are used to achieve a serum level of 200 - 300 µg/ml.
Therefore, a toxic reaction to suramin is suspected as the explanation for the skin rashes.
Acetylcholinesterase (ACE) inhibitor-induced angioedema is supposed to be an uncommon cause for oropharyngeal edema.
Between January 1, 1993 and February 1, 1997 we treated 20 patients with edema of the oropharyngeal region that was not caused by infection or irradiation.
The most common reason was an ACE-inhibitor-induced angioedema and occurred in 9 cases, all of whom required inpatient treatment.
The medical management consisted of the administra- tion of intravenous (i.v.)
glucocorticosteroids in all cases, H1-blockers in 6 cases, epinephrine by inhalation in one case and i.v.
Tracheostomy had to be performed in one patient.
In our experience it is necessary to reconsider ACE inhibitor-induced angioedma in any case of an oropharyngeal edema.
However, there is no reason for the routine application of epinephrine in these cases.
After treatment of more than 3000 kidney and ureteral stones with the Siemens Lithostar Multiline the results of the first 1400 ureteral stone treatments using the "Booster technique" and 3-month follow-up findings are reported.
There was a disintegration rate of 98 % directly after treatment; 1 week after "Booster technique" treatment 96 % of the patients were free of stones and without any symptoms.
The 3-month follow-up showed a stone-free rate of 97 %.
Only in 13 % of the cases auxiliary procedures were neccessary, 7 % of them before extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) and 6 % after ESWL.
43 % of the treatments were performed without any premedication, anaesthesia or sedoanalgesia.
Our data even prove that in situ ESWL is a safe and effective method for the treatment of ureteral stones.
In comparison to endoscopic procedures, it is superior in regard to invasivity, side effects, complications and neccessity of analgesia, while being just as efficient.
Therefore it is recommended as first choice method in the treatment of ureteral stones.
The perspectives for active hearing implants lie in the treatment of patients with sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL).
The majority of patients with SNHL suffer from a cochlea amplifier (CA) failure which is discernible by a positive recruitment and loss of otoacoustic emissions (OAE).
Therefore, the electronic implant is expected to partially replace functions of the CA.
Thus, the implant is thought to function as a CAI (cochlea amplifier implant).
An approved implant for routine use is not yet available.
Clinical studies have thus far only used the high energy consuming (HEC), narrow-band, electromagnetic floating-mass transducer, as well as the Maniglia-HEC implant.
The high energie consuming, yet broadband Canadian Fredrickson implant is soon to be used in humans.
Of the piezoelectrical implants, a German CAI (Tübingen implant) at present consisting of a piezoelectrical transducer and a microphone has thus far been acutely implanted in first patient.
It is a low energy consuming (LEC), broad-band implantable system for patients with sensorineural hearing loss.
Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) was de-scribed electroclinically by Janz and Christian in 1957 and consists of myoclonic jerks in  varying combination with the absence of seizures and generalized tonic-clonic seizures, a typical circadian distribution on awakening, sleep deprivation, alcohol consumption and flickering stimuli as characteristic precipitating factors, typical EEG abnormalities with generalized epileptiform discharges, normal physical and neuroradiological findings, and often a family history of epilepsy.
Although the misdiagnosis of this well-classified and easily treatable syndrome is supposed to occur rarely in Germany, we retrospectively investigated how often the wrong initial classification had been made among patients who were finally treated in our outpatient epilepsy unit.
Between 1993 and 1995, 30 patients with a typical JME-like symptom constellation were identified who had been misdiagnosed initially.
In all patients, localization-related epilepsy had been classified, although regional EEG abnormalities were rare (n=5).
All patients reported the typical circadian distribution, abnormal neuroradiological findings were absent, and typical EEG abnormalities were present in all cases.
Under treatment with appropiate antiepileptic drugs 97% of the patients became almost completely seizure-free.
Even 40 years after the first description of the syndrome, JME is an underdiagnosed illness.
The generally  positive course underlines the importance of its correct identification.
Background: The aim of the study was to evaluate results of visual acuity and binocularity and complications after cataract surgery with primary capsular bag-fixated IOL implantation in children.
Arterial hypertension is known to be an important risk factor for cerebral and cardiovascular disease.
Previous studies have demonstrated alterations in the perifoveal microcirculation in patients with essential hypertension.
During follow-up a progression of these alterations has been reported.
In the present study we quantified the retinal microcirculation of patients with hypertension under different systemic antihypertensive medication.
Vaginal and uterine bleeding is a common symptom in gynecology.
The cause of the bleeding should be investigated so as to exclude carcinoma as its origin.
First, the basic circulation parameters should be determined.
Blood volume and oxygen substitution are essential.
Depending on these findings, further diagnostic or therapeutic steps must be undertaken.
If the situation is stable, diagnostic measures are indicated to localize the bleeding and the tumor.
A general examination, including a vaginal and rectal examination, must be performed.
Other diagnostic procedures such as ultrasound (vaginal and transabdominal) and CT or MRI may be required.
If available, an angiography should be performed.
Medium-term results with a follow-up of at least 3 years were done in 160 patients (average follow up 51 months) after ACL reconstruction using IKDC evaluation form and Noyes score and in 110 patients (average follow Up 53 months) after non-operative management.
Unlike objective good parameters the subjective assessment of knee function according to the Noyes score reveals significantly worse results in cases with ACL reconstruction compared to the knees without surgery.
The best functional results we found in professional athletes after ACL reconstruction.
Comparable positive results of knee function is only achieved in approx.
15 % of the patients from the natural history group, who can maintain high risk pivoting activity level feeling no giving way.
In our opinion compensatory proprioceptive mechanism account for the surpassing results in these two groups of patients.
It will be postulated that it is not the absolute power of the hamstring but the latency period of recruition that influences the compensation of anterior knee instability.
We have modified our rehabilitation methods in order to improve proprioception and dynamic stability of the ACL-deficient knee.
Based on our results we primarily limitate the ACL reconstruction on a group of patients practicing high-risk-pivoting sports.
Only when menisceal lesions appear or patients suffer from giving way episodes we support secondary surgery.
The pivot shift sign is reflecting the dynamic aspect of knee instability.
In our opinion it is the decisive parameter to assess knee instability unless there are useful technical procederes.
Multiple injuries in elderly patients are still a common problem.
The present study was performed to investigate mortality and complications in multiple trauma patients aged 65 years or more.
A total of 1154 multiple trauma patients with an injury severity score (ISS) of at least 18 points were divided in two age groups: Y: 16 - 64 years, n = 1022; O: 65 - 94 years, n = 132.
Older patients were injured as pedestrians in most cases (69%), while younger patients were more frequently injured as car and drivers passengers (41%).
ISS was comparable in both groups (Y 28 +/- 1, O 27 +/- 1).
During ICU-therapy incidence of ARDS (Y 10%, O 11%), multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MOF; Y 6%, O 9%) and pneumonia (Y 17%, O 21%) were comparable.
In contrast, septic complications were more frequent in older patients (Y 19%, O 27%).
Length of ICU stay (Y 19 +/- 2, O 18 +/- 1) and ventilation time (Y 14 +/- 2, O 17 +/- 1) were comparable.
Mortality was significantly higher in older patients (Y 15%, O 53%).
The major cause of death was sepsis in older patients (Y 15%, O 31%) and MOF in younger patients (Y 54%, O 29%).
In conclusion, older trauma patients had a higher mortality due to the development of septical complications.
The Raynaud phenomenon occurs in 90-100% of patients with systemic scleroderma.
It is caused by dysregulation of the vascular tone between vasocontrictive and vasodilatory influences.
Early damage to the vascular endothelium and the activation of platelets lead to the release of vasoactive substances.
Structural and function impairment of the perivascular neural fibers contributes to the vasospasm.
New vasodilatory treatment strategies, e.g.
infusions with calcitonin gene-related peptides, could be useful in the control of vasospasm in the peripheral extremities as well as internal organs in systemic scleroderma.
Due to the limited efficacy of drug therapy in atrial fibrillation and the high rate of recurrence, strong efforts were made to find non-pharmacological strategies.
For three years now, the implantable atrial defibrillator Metrix from InControl has been available as an alternative therapy.
From October 1995 to the present the atrial defibrillator was implanted in 179 patients worldwide.
The sensitivity of the system and its algorithms to detect atrial fibrillation is 90%; the specifity to detect sinus rhythm is 100%.
In 121 of 179 patients, 748 episodes of spontaneous atrial fibrillation were treated with 2.4 shocks per episode.
No proarrhythmic event or stroke was seen.
A cardioversion to sinus rhythm could be achieved in 95% of patients; the overall clinical success rate was 88%.
In 7% of all patients, early recurrence of atrial fibrillation (ERAF) occurred that could not be converted into stable sinus rhythm after further cardioversions and antiarrhythmic therapy.
In 4.1% there were lead-related complications, in 4 patients the device had to be explanted because of ineffective therapy, and in 3 patients the device had to be changed because of loss of telemetry or early depletion of battery.
In 8 patients, postoperative complications were seen (infections, pneumothorax and thrombosis of the subclavian vein).
Overall, the implantable atrial defibrillator Metrix is an effective and safe alternative in treating atrial fibrillation.
Background: The success rate of combined glaucoma and small incision cataract surgery is not yet established.
The somatosensory system of preterms and newborns differs substantially from adults.
These differences are of considerable preclinical and clinical interest.
Maturation of A- and C-fibre synaptic connections in the dorsal horn and development of descending inhibition from the brainstem all take place postnatally in the rat.
In early stages of development there is no definite spatial sepraration in the dorsal horn between the nociceptive and the non-nociceptive system.
In preterms but not in adults non-noxious stimuli can induce central sensitization.
Many neurotransmitters and signalling molecules involved in pain pathways are expressed early in the developing nervous system but do not reach adult levels for a considerable period.
More important, receptors are frequently transiently overexpressed or expressed in areas during development where they are not seen in the adult and may have a different functional profile.
The descending pain inhibitory system that provides an important protection against central sensitization developes later than the ascending nociceptive system.
Thus, during a critical period of time the immature nociceptive system is highly vulnerable.
For example, neonatal circumcision in the absence of analgesia results in increased pain responses during subsequent routine vaccination months later.
Numerous studies conducted during the past decades indicate that the public's attitude toward the mentally ill is strongly prejudiced.
Since the attitude of the general public also has an effect on community-based psychiatric care, we must ask how public opinion might be influenced.
One possible approach could be through so-called key community leaders - those who are highly respected in society because of their competence in a particular area.
Doctors belong to this group of people.
For this reason we questioned medical students, as future key community leaders, with respect to their attitudes toward the mentally ill within the framework of their first contact with psychiatric patients during their studies.
In order to make a direct comparison possible, we interviewed a sample of the Mannheim population who live in a part of the city where a variety of complementary facilities have been set up.
The comparison shows that medical students do not have a more positive attitude toward the mentally ill; in fact, in certain areas they have an even more negative attitude toward the mentally ill than the general population has.
We were not able to establish what effect teaching has with respect to changing attitudes.
Systematic lymphadenectomy for colorectal cancer aims to remove potentially metastatic lymph nodes from the tumor's drainage basin.
This requires knowledge of normal lymphatic anatomy and metastatic routes.
Systematic lymphadenectomy performed as a standard or as an extended resection is a prerequisite for pathologic tumor staging.
An intensive search by the pathologist for lymph node metastases is critical for precise staging.
Recommendations as to the extent of lymphadenectomy are derived from potential improvement of prognosis and procedure-related complications.
Life threatening hemorrhage in patients with malignant tumours of the head and neck area are often, as a result of tumour infiltration, postoperative anatomical changes, infection and radiological necrosis, difficult to control.
One option for prophylaxis and treatment is the ligature of the external (ECA) or common carotid artery (CCA) and superior thyroid artery (STA).
52 patients were examined in a retrospective study to determine both the hazards and the therapeutic use of the procedure.
The external carotid artery (ECA) was ligated prophylactically during the operative procedure of tumour resection and neck dissection in 25 patients.
In 27 cases closure of the ECA, CCA or ECA and STA was carried out as an emergency procedure for acute hemorrhage following completed primary treatment (operation, primary or postoperative radiation or radiochemotherapy).
There was no postoperative hemorrhage after prophylactic ligature of the ECA.
One patient with multiple cardiovascular diseases suffered from an ipsilateral cerebral infarction 1 year after operation.
In 6 of 9 patients and in all 3 patients, in whom ligature of the CCA or ECA and STA respectively was carried out as an emergency procedure, severe neurological complications up to an apallic syndrome occured.
The number of deaths due to acute hemorrhage was considerably smaller among those patients with prophylactic ligature of the ECA performed during operative procedure of tumor resection and neck dissection.
In addition there were much less unfavourable courses in the sequence of prophylactic closure of the ECA than observed after ligating the CCA or ECA and STA in an emergency situation.
The carcinoid tumor of the middle ear is a very rare neoplasm which in general is regarded as benign but may be mistaken for an adenocarcinoma because of its histological heterogeneity.
Typical, however, is its neuroendocrine and mucinous differentiation so that an unequivocal diagnosis is possible by means of immunohistochemistry and electron microscopy.
As the tumor is very rare, there is no statistical evidence as to whether further treatment is necessary after primary exstirpation of the tumor.
Therefore, a review of the literature was performed.
We report about a 28-year-old male patient with a carcinoid tumor of the left tympanic cavity.
Without any further treatment there has been no evidence for either recurrence or metastases 32 months after surgical resection.
As treatment of choice we recommend conservative surgery with complete removal of the tumor and a clinical follow-up on a regular basis.
Intraoperative precision in computer-assisted surgery depends on the characteristics of a navigation system, the precision of correlation between object and data set, the position, number and fixation of landmarks, and the parameters of the data set.
The characteristics of a navigation system, in particular the immanent precision, can be detected by the use of the geometric model and navigation analyzer developed at the University of Regensburg with the support of Carl Zeiss, Germany.
The precision of five navigation systems of different types and technology was measured: Viewing Wand (ISG, mechanical system), the SMN microscope (Carl Zeiss, infrared system with laser autofocus), the MKM system (Carl Zeiss, robot platform with laser autofocus) and the STP pointer (Leibinger, infrared system).
The immanent precision of these systems ranges from 0.1 to 2.0 mm.
An electromagnetic system (3-Space Digitizer, Polhemus) was compared; this produces serious spherical deviations of 10.0 to 20.0 mm in the presence of metal, surgical and rotating instruments, and circuits.
The application of these different systems for craniomaxillofacial surgery is discussed.
The aim of the study was to record retrospectively the events of Pneumocystis carinii-Pneumonia (PCP) among HIV-infected children (<18 years) in Germany.
The patients were evaluated with regard to prophylaxis, course of disease and prognosis.
In this study we looked at the relationship between extracorporal circulation and changes in blood electrolytes.
Glucocorticoids are a potent cause of osteoporosis and thus a potential source of substantial morbidity in patients who are already significantly disabled by their underlying condition.
These agent interact with calcium metabolism at many levels; in particular they reduce the osteoblast's synthesis of the principal proteins of bone matrix.
They also reduce circulating sex hormone concentrations, particularly in men and postmenopausal women.
Gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST), which form a rare group of neoplasias of the gastrointestinal tract, have not yet been fully investigated.
Although good progress has been made in their diagnosis, classification of these lesions with regard to their histogenesis and biological behavior remains problematic.
Between 1994 and 1998, 18 GIST patients underwere operation in the Department of Surgery.
Twelve of these patients (67 %) had stromal tumors in the stomach, and six (33 %) had intestinal stromal tumors.
The primary tumor could be removed in all patients with R0 resection.
Six patients developed hematogenous liver metastasis, with the size of their primary tumor exceeding 10 cm.
Extrahepatic distant metastases were not found in any case.
Lymphadenectomy showed that lymph node metastases did not occur.
Histological evaluation was made according to the guidelines of Lewin, Weinstein and Riddell.
Currently established therapy is limited to complete surgical resection of the primary tumor and its metastases.
Adjuvant or neoadjuvant chemotherapy approaches have failed.
Acute leptospirosis in Europe (Weil's disease) is a rare and in more than 90 % of the cases undiagnosed febrile, self-limited disease.
We report the case of a 39-year-old sewerage worker, who was admitted to our hospital with fever, jaundice, pain in his calves and acute renal failure.
Serology revealed elevated antibody titers against Leptospira canicola, L. icterhaemorrhagica and L. sejroe.
The patient developed disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) with diffuse gastrointestinal bleeding due to thrombocytopenia.
The ECG showed atrial fibrillation with irregularly irregular rhythm.
Cardiac arrest developed, most likely due to hypoxia, with a drop in the blood pressure.
Despite immediate resuscitation efforts the patient developed severe hypoxic brain damage and died a few days later.
Autopsy disclosed histologic signs of a generalized leptospiral infection, signs of shock and within the lungs a necrotizing herpes simplex virus pneumonia causing the death of the patient.
The virus pneumonia most probably was caused by retrograde canalicular dissemination of oral secretions since herpetic tracheitis and esophagitis were found and herpetic lesions were readily identified on the lips and tongue.
A medical opinion asked for by the professional association having liability for occupational safety and insurance was given, the disease being recognized as an occupational disease.
During the past decade, the molecular mechanisms in the process of tumor progression, including metastasis and angiogenesis, have become better understood.
Cancer metastasis consists of multiple, complex interacting steps.
Each of these steps is crucial and limiting, since a failure to complete any one prevents the tumor cell from producing a metastasis.
Detachment from the solid tumor by loosening the intercellular junctions and proteolysis of the extracellular matrix enables tumor cells to enter blood- and lymph vessels.
The intravasation into the circulation is supported by the secretion of angiogenic factors, which induce degradation of the basal membran in blood vessels.
Adhesion to endothelial cells, extravasation from the circulation, and induction of angiogenesis are further essential steps for completing the metastatic process.
Furthermore, it is well known that once a tumor cell has entered circulation, it will survive only by evasion of the immune system.
The systematic identification of tumor antigens opens up new possibilities for immunotherapeutic approaches.
Hypogonadism is the main indication for testosterone substitution in the ageing male.
The choice of the testosterone preparation should be based on the principle that serum levels of testosterone remain in the normal range and fast termination of therapy is possible.
To date, transdermal testosterone systems appear to be best suited for substitution therapy in the ageing male.
Future promising developments are testosterone gels and intramuscular testosterone undecanoate.
Any testosterone therapy in the ageing male has to be monitored closely, especially regarding erythropoiesis and the prostate.
Pigmented villonodular synovitis (PVNS) is a disease that involves the lining of joints, bursae and tendon sheaths.
The incidence is low and estimated to be 1.8 patients per million population.
The cause of PVNS is unclear and discussed to be either inflammatory or neoplastic.
PVNS has been described in 2 forms different for prognosis and treatment (nodular and diffuse).
The articular form almost appeares in the knee joint as we describe below in a 14 year-old patient.
In this retrospective study, 13 patients with subtle Lisfranc joint injuries were examined after a mean period of 23 months using clinical assessment, radiography and dynamic pedographic gait analysis.
The aims were to identify the factors leading to a mobile flatfoot deformity, evaluate the functional and clinical outcome of these injuries, and draw practical conclusions for initial management and subsequent intervention.
All patients showed a mobile flatfoot deformity, increased motion in the subtalar joint, increased load on the hindfoot, decreased load on the forefoot, and a prolonged contact phase during the stance phase.
Radiographs revealed progressive osteoarthrosis in the joint and a residual displacement of the medial Lisfranc joint.
An unstable medial Lisfranc joint results in the development of a mobile flatfoot.
Initial treatment of a subtly displaced Lisfranc joint should consist of exact anatomical reduction and additional maintenance of the longitudinal arch of the foot.
After failed initial treatment, early arthrodesis of the midfoot is recommended as a salvage procedure for the foot.
Cross-sectional imaging with CT and MRI plays an indispensable complementary role to endoscopy in the pretherapeutic workup and staging of laryngeal neoplasms.
Adequate interpretation of the CT and MR images requires a thorough knowledge of the patterns of submucosal spread and familiarity with the diagnostic signs of neoplastic invasion as seen with each modality.
In addition, the radiologist should be aware of the implications of imaging for staging and treatment.
Both CT and MR imaging are highly sensitive for the detection of neoplastic invasion of the pre-epiglottic space, paraglottic space, subglottic region and cartilage.
The high negative predictive value of both CT and MRI allows exclusion of neoplastic cartilage invasion quite reliably.
The specificity of both CT and MRI is, however, limited and both methods may therefore overestimate the extent of tumor spread.
Nevertheless, both cross-sectional imaging methods significantly improve the pretherapeutic staging accuracy of laryngeal tumors if used in addition to clinical examination and endoscopic biopsy.
In the presence of a submucosal mass, CT and MRI play a key role for the diagnosis, as they may characterize the lesion, reliably depict its submucosal extent, and guide the endoscopist to perform deep biopsies that allow a definitive histological diagnosis.
Background: HLA-DR antigen plays a key role in transplantation immunology.
Organ culture storage leads to loss of HLA-DR-positive corneal Langerhans cells.
This study investigates the importance of prolonged storage period for the success rate after penetrating keratoplasty.
Ergotamine-containing drugs are widely used in the treatment of acute migraine attacks.
Among others, spastic vasoconstrictions are one of the possible side effects usually affecting the lower extremities and sometimes leading to gangrene.
The case of a 75 year old woman is presented who was suffering from migraine-attacks since adolescence.
Due to longterm use of ergotamine containing suppositories she developed perianal ulcers.
After withdrawl of the drug the ulcers healed up entirely.
The spectrum of ergotamine-induced side-effects and possible intervention strategies are discussed.
In this article, a model of quality assurance for inpatient psychotherapy is discussed, which was developed in cooperation between researchers and clinicians.
This model is based on the concept of internal quality assurance with external help.
The Heidelberg Model of Active Internal Quality Assurance has three elements: (1.)
a QA-Inventory for routine monitoring; (2.)
rules for evaluating the outcome of every patient and (3.)
a feedback model for communicating the results to the therapists (quality circles).
The focus of this model is the recognition of problematic results.
It is mainly these results that will be discussed in our quality circles, where the outcome of treatments from the perspective of the inventory and of the therapists are discussed.
This feedback model and the quality circles will be explained with three examples of patients.
The Heidelberg Model of Active Internal Quality Assurance will be seen as the basis of a concept of Quality Assurance, which is aimed at assuring and improving the quality and rationality of the psychotherapeutic service.
Aims: In this study the technique of intravenous regional anesthesia (Bier block) was evaluated as an experimental tool to differentiate peripheral and central effects of analgesics.
A pre-term infant weighing 900 g, gestational age 25 weeks, developed an acute abdomen.
Intravenous lines had been inserted previously in the left (silasticcatheter) and right (24 G cannula) saphenous veins in the neonatal intensive care unit.
During surgical exploration, a perforation of the terminal ileum was found.
The operation consisted in partial resection of the perforated ileum with an end-to-end anastomosis and a double-lumen colostomy.
Major blood loss during the procedure caused serious haemodynamic problems.
Despite transfusion of erythrocyte (100 ml), thrombocytes (75 ml), and albumin (50 ml), the patient developed bradycardia and hypotension.
Administration of atropine, adrenaline, and calcium IV had no effect.
The operation could be finished only with extrathoracic resuscitation.
When the drapes were removed, livid, swollen lower limbs raised the suspicion of an acute thrombosis of the inferior vena cava.
After insertion of a 24 G IV cannula into a vein of the right upper arm, the circulation stabilised after rapid transfusion of 40 ml blood and 25 ml thrombocytes and resuscitation was successful.
Paediatricians and anaesthesiologists must consider the risk of thrombosis of the vena cava.
If venous lines in the lower limbs are not visible to the anaesthesiologist during the operation, venipuncture of veins of an upper limb is recommended before starting the surgical procedure.
Due to the high incidence of vena cava thrombosis caused by central venous lines and the difficulty of peripheral venipuncture in pre-termintanty, a safe venous line should be inserted if necessary by pre-operative venesection.
While complementary medicine and homeopathy is becoming an increasingly prominent part of the health care practices, there is a lack of controlled studies concerning their effectiveness.
In our study, we wanted to answer the question whether a combination of Formica rufa D6 and reinjection of the patient's own blood is superior to injection of placebo.
104 patients with ankylosing spondylitis entered a prospective, randomized, double-blind study.
During four weeks they received twice weekly either 1 ml of Formica rufa D6 in combination with 0.5 ml of blood or 1.5 ml NaCl intramuscular.
Before and after therapy, mobility, thoracic excursion and doctor's overall assessment were measured in addition to patient's health status, using a German version of the Arthritis Impact Measurement Scales, before and after therapy as well as four, twelve, and twentyfour weeks later.
We were not able to detect any statistical difference between treatment and placebo group in any of the parameters measured.
Therefore, the therapy under study may not be regarded effective.
A 32-year-old man was accused of attempted rape.
While urinating at the side of the road he felt an erection.
He approached a 9-year-old girl who happened to be coming along and pressed his penis between her legs until ejaculation.
Shortly afterwards he was arrested.
He confessed, but claimed partial amnesia and had no explanation for the offence, which he normally would never have thought of.
Shortly before the event a witness had seen him nearby in a poor state of orientation.
Three months later in prison he suffered massive subarachnoidal hemorrhage from an aneurysm of the anterior communicating artery.
The evaluation of his legal responsibility must take account of a putative psychomotor seizure at the time of the offence.
With regard to the aneurysm diagnosed later, a pathogenetic connection, in terms of a preceding warning leak, might be assumed.
We present a 43-year-old patient who has had up to 15 frontal lobe seizures nightly for 12 years.
The patient had no complaints apart from excessive daytime sleepiness.
Neurological and psychiatric examination as well as cerebral computed tomograph and magnetic resonance imaging were normal.
After sleep deprivation an interictal electro-encephalogram demonstrated a recurrent excess of theta activity over the right frontal and frontopolar area.
A cerebral PET study showed diminished glucose metabolism of the right cingular and frontomesial region.
The sleep structure was extremely fragmented.
There was an excessive reduction of slow-wave sleep and REM sleep.
Carbamazepine therapy produced complete seizure control lasting a few weeks, followed by return of up to 8 seizures per night.
Vigabatrin as add on therapy diminished the noctural seizures to 1 to 3 per night.
Introduction: We attempted to optimize the determination of energy expenditure and substrate utilisation in VLBW infants for practical use in a tertiary care center.
The influence of measuring conditions upon results as well as of caloric intake and food composition on substrate utilisation and growth were investigated.
We report a truck driver with severe soft tissue contusion of both legs who developed atypical heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) after a thrombosis prophylaxis with unfractionated heparin; despite a thrombosis the patient showed a systemic allergic reaction to heparin in combination with elevation of thrombocytes and positive heparin-dependent antibodies.
Six days after the initial trauma deep vein thrombosis of the left lower leg was diagnosed and fasciotomy was performed, preventing an imminent compartment syndrome.
Another 5 days later the patient developed exanthema of the trunk and upper extremities and urticaria on his face, as well as severe headache.
His platelet count increased from 134 000/µl to 258 000/µl.
After exclusion of other causes for these symptoms, a reaction to heparin-dependent antibodies (heparin-platelet-factor 4 complex) was demonstrated 2 days later.
Thrombosis prophylaxis was changed to hirudin (Refludan) and elevation of thrombocytes to 445 000/µl was noted.
Shortly after rinsing of an intravenous line with less than 50 IE unfractionated heparin at day 36 after trauma the patient developed an anaphylactic shock, which could be managed with cortisone.
We suggest that in HIT the thrombocytopenia may represent only one form of an allergic reaction to heparin.
The cause of the thrombembolic event is an antigen-antibody reaction to heparin taking place on the surface of the thrombocyte.
This is similar in all forms of systemic reaction to heparin application, even though the symptoms may vary.
As thrombocytopenia may not be the main symptom of a heparin-induced antibody reaction - in our hospital only 5 of 10 patients with HIT - the disease should rather be named "heparin allergy".
We suggest a new classification of different pattern of heparin allergy types I-IV.
The new types I and II are similar to HIT types I and II.
Type III is the reaction of antibodies without decrease of thrombocytes, and type IV the reaction of antibodies associated with systemic allergic symptoms.
In recent years, lengthening the human mandible by distraction osteogenesis has become an accepted treatment to correct severe mandibular hypoplasia.
Using intraoral unidirectional and extraoral bidirectional distraction devices we report about our experiences and results in the application of the bone distraction technique in four selected cases of syndromal disease, including various forms of mandibular hypoplastic malformations.
The patients involved were a boy with Pierre Robin syndrome, a girl with unilateral facial hypoplasia in Goldenhar's syndrome, a case with Nager's syndrome, and a rare case of midline deficiency caused by partial deletion of chromosome 18 (18p-syndrome).
The distraction period lasted from 6 to 30 days and new bone formation, ranging from 6 to 28 mm, was achieved.
Real leg length discrepancies may be cosmetically disturbing and lead to gait abnormalities, pelvic obliquity with subsequent lumbar scoliosis as well as functional disturbances of hip, knee and ankle joint.
Morbidity and mortality after reversal of Hartmann's procedure following perforated sigmoid diverticulitis are high and the rate of intestinal restoration is low.
Aim: To investigate whether laparoscopically assisted reversal of Hartmann's procedure is technically feasible and whether the laparoscopic procedure offers any benefit to the patient.
Method: Nineteen patients were investigated.
The postoperative course was followed prospectively.
All patients were reinvestigated 9 months after surgery.
Results: Laparoscopic reversal of Hartmann's procedure was attempted in 19 patients.
One patient did not want the laparoscopic technique.
In two cases (11 %) conversion to the conventional technique was necessary; thus, 16 patients were operated laparoscopically.
Median operative time was 114 (65-180) min.
With the exception of three wound infections no immediate postoperative complications were noticed.
Patients' convalescence was fast.
First evacuation took place 3.3 (3-5) days after surgery, complete oral nutrition 3.6 (3-5) days after surgery.
Duration of postoperative hospitalisation was 7.5 (5-12) days.
One patient developed later a clinically significant anastomotic stricture which needed endoscopic dilatation.
Conclusion: Laparoscopically assisted Hartmann's reversal is technically demanding but feasible.
Postoperative morbidity is low, duration of hospitalisation short, convalescence fast.
Thus, good arguments exist for performing reversal of Hartmann's procedures laparoscopically.
Mechanical ventilation is a well-etablished strategy in intensive care medicine.
ICU trauma patients require analgesia, and sedation mostly consists of benzodiazepines and opioids with increasing doses over time.
The weaning period is complicated by the withdrawal syndrome, showing tachycardia, hypertonia, tachypnea and restlessness.
Although treatment with clonidine can influence these symptoms, tachypnea still remains the main problem in weaning patients from mechanical ventilation.
Adding sufentanil, an opioid with greater effects on analgesia than on respiratory depression compared with fentanyl, tachypnea can be reduced to normal frequency.
In this way weaning management can be managed more easily for the benefit of both, the patient and physician.
In comparison with a group of 50 patients treated with clonidine alone, 72 patients treated with clonidine/sufentanil showed a shorter period from the start of spontaneous ventilation until extubation (4.8 vs 7.6 days) and until discharge from the ICU (7.7 vs 12.4 days).
The number of reintubations caused by respiratory exhaustion decreased from 16.0 to 2.8 %.
Background: With regard to penetrating keratoplasty methods to culture corneal donor tissues, microsurgical techniques, HLA typing and understanding of basic mechanisms in inflammation and especially graft rejection, and postoperative treatment schedules have been improved in recent years.
This now enables successful penetrating keratoplasty in many more patients than previously performed.
However, in rare cases relevant problems in wound closure may appear.
The occurrence of a new influenza virus subtype in 1997 in Hongkong caused only minor outbreaks due to the swift and determined actions of the institutions involved.
However, this incident again made it clear that an influenza pandemic is still a pending threat.
As a result the WHO presented a pandemic preparedness plan which is to facilitate the global measures taken to fight an imminent or ongoing pandemic.
Strong efforts of influenza surveillance and the coordination of worldwide measures are essential to this plan.
Furthermore the WHO suggested the developement and introduction of similar national preparedness plans.
Given the high mortality of severe sepsis and septic shock, immunomodulation has been considered as an attractive adjunct therapy.
Many agents have been studied that have the therapeutic potential to interfere with cytokines and other pathways which are activated during sepsis.
Drugs having the properties to neutralize lipopolysaccharides have also been considered.
So far all the large clinical trials with immunomodulating agents (HA1A, E5, anti TNF antibodies, ILra) have been shown to be of marginal or of no benefit.
In certain trials results were indecisive, or mortality was increased which led to discontinue the studies.
In certain other trials, like those on antibodies against TNF, some positive effects were seen in subcategories of patients.
Thus, new trials are on their ways.
So far the results of early trials has forced investigators to re-examine the concept of immunomodulation, and to redefine strategies to optimally use agents in a way that benefits the host, while not putting him at risk.
Recently, percutaneous dilatational tracheotomy (PDT) has become more frequent, since the technique can be mastered relatively easily.
PDT is neither time-consuming nor does it require much personell or material.
Our study seeks to evaluate PDT in terms of its effectivness and practicality on a cardio-surgical ICU.
Recently, two new halogenated volatile anaesthetics, sevoflurane and desflurane, have been approved for clinical use in Germany.
Their low solubility in blood is the most important common property, and this represents the most obvious difference from the inhalational anaesthetics currently used.
Extensive clinical and experimental evaluations have confirmed the superior pharmacokinetic properties predicted.
Both sevoflurane and desflurane provide more rapid emergence from anaesthesia, permit easier titration of the anaesthetic dose during maintenance and offer more rapid recovery from anaesthesia.
For sevoflurane, there are additional advantages: a pleasant odor, negligible airway irritation, and excellent pharmacodynamic characteristics that even provide cardiovascular stability comparable to isoflurane.
A certain disadvantage and source of potential nephrotoxicity result from the metabolism of sevoflurane (2-5%) to anorganic fluoride and degradation to compound A in carbon dioxide absorbents.
The extensive clinical data reported to date have revealed no evidence that sevoflurane has adverse renal effects.
New insight into the pathomechanism of nephrotoxicity associated with either production of fluoride or compound A may well support clinical experience.
Desflurane strongly resists in vivo metabolism and because of this it appears to be devoid of toxicity.
Nevertheless, potential side-effects may result from degradation in dry absorbents and subsequent release of CO, from its extreme pungency and irritating airway effects.
Thus, desflurane is not recommended for induction of anaesthesia, especially in children.
The tendency for desflurane transiently to stimulate sympathetic activity, especially at concentrations above 1.0 MAC, limits its application in patients with cardiac disease.
The doctor in charge, who is generally the medical director, is liable if patients suffer harm through organizational faults within his or her department.
Even the suspicion that an error has arisen as the result of defective organization is enough for the person responsible - that is to say the medical director - to be liable.
For this reason, the doctor in charge must be in a position to recognize structural defects in organization and to correct these by means of staff training.
Every training measure must guarantee specialist standards; this means that the work of doctors with no specialist training and those still in training and working under supervision is guaranteed to be of the same standard and performed with the same degree of meticulous care as that of a qualified specialist.
A legally valid consent from the patient and documentation of the patient information must be accessible at all times.
Operations carried out by doctors in training must be supervised by a qualified specialist; otherwise the doctor in charge is guilty of a defect in organization.
Because of staff shortages it often happens that inexperienced beginners - often doctors doing their practical training - are on call very early on.
In the high-risk specialty of obstetrics it is particularly important that doctors still undergoing practical training can call on an experienced colleague for help at all times.
The changeover from day duty to emergency duty must be organized by the doctor in charge in such a way that the medical staff are rested and that adequate free time is guaranteed.
There must be no friction when cooperation with other disciplines concerned is needed.
Each sector must know its own area of responsibility.
The doctor in charge is resonsible for seeing that his or her staff members are familiar with the use of the medical equipment.
Uniform guidelines will make it possible for the medical director to train his/her staff and prevent systematic organizational defects.
Georg Friedrich Stromeyer (1804- 1876) is generally known as one of the founders of orthopedics and orthopedic surgery and also made many contributions to modern military medicine.
Furthermore, every oral and maxillofacial surgeon in Germany knows him because of the "Stromeyer hook", which is used for elevation of zygomatic arch fractures.
This special aspect as well as Stromeyer's biography is presented in this article from the history of medicine.
Changes in clinical presentation of Crohn's disease (CD), patients' age at the time of disease manifestation and operation, general condition and duration of medical management were investigated in a retrospective study.
395 operations for CD were divided into consecutive groups and analysed.
In an increasing number of cases patients presented with the "fibrostenotic type" rather than the "fistulizing type" of complaints.
The duration of disease and of medical management increased.
Patients in later groups were younger and in better general condition.
We found a rise in frequency of patients with recurrent CD or prior abdominal surgery for other reasons.
Primary surgery for CD increasingly consisted of resection of solitary segments of gut; in the case of recurrence, of multiple, minimal resections.
The average total length of the resected intestine could be significantly reduced.
The complication rate was equal in elective and emergency surgery.
Even among the uncommon aneurysms of the visceral arteries the aneurysm of the pancreaticoduodenalis artery is considered a rarity.
Etiologically, numerous factors must be taken into account, the most significant one being arteriosclerosis.
The clinical presentation is unspecific and ambiguous.
CT and, above all, intra-arterial DSA allow for a diagnosis.
A generous consideration of indicating operative intervention, even in asymptomatic patients, is especially justified because of the imminent risk of rupture.
The preferrable therapy consists of elimination of the aneurysm either conventionally by proximal and distal ligature of the pancreaticoduodenalis artery or endovascularly by embolization.
In the future a treatment with coated stents (TPEG) would also seem possible.
Special attention must be paid to concomitant occlusive disease in other visceral arteries since measures for vessel reconstruction may be required because of intraoperative impairment of the collateral circulation.
We report on the rupture of an aneurysm of the pancreaticoduodenal inferior artery in association with celiac axis occlusion.
Background: Clinical courses of eight patients with urea cycle disorders (deficiencies of carbamylphosphate-synthetase (4), argininosuccinate-synthetase (2) and argininosuccinate-lyase (2) ) are described.
Methods/Therapy: Emergency treatment consisted of benzoate and arginine i. v. as well as peritoneal dialysis and/or modified hemodialysis.
Chronic treatment comprised a low-protein diet and substitution of essential amino acids, of benzoate or phenylbutyrate and of branched-chain amino acids.
Results: Within 72 hours after birth hyperammonemic coma with cerebral edema developed, leading to developmental retardation later in life.
Four patients died between 2 weeks and 4 years of age.
During follow-up, all patients suffered hyperammonemic derangements treated conservatively.
Phenylbutyrate had less gastrointestinal side-effects than benzoate, branched-chain amino acids had favourable effects.
One patient was treated conservatively since birth followed by a normal development.
Conclusions: Neonatal respiratory distress with alkalosis and rapid global deterioration should raise the suspicion of a urea cycle disorder.
Specific therapy as described can be life-saving, although most children exhibit marked developmental delay.
Sodium phenylbutyrate has fewer side-effects than sodium benzoate.
Therapy prior to cerebral edema can prevent complications.
Pronounced osteoporosis of and surrounding the acetabulum commonly leads to early loosening of endoprosthetic hip replacements following implantation.
Large osseous defects in the subimplant bed are the result and the reason why multiple revisions of loosened acetabular cups have to be performed so often in rheumatic surgery.
The defects extend from the cranial to the central; ventral and dorsal anchorage losses may occur in addition to this.
The anchorage of a new implant must be adapted to the individual circumstances.
The new implant must be selected in accordance with point of surgical access, the patient's general status and osseous regenerationability.
In the optimum case, osseous buildup of lost anatomical structures is the preferred method.
If this is not possible, special implants, mostly custom-made prostheses, have to be incorporated.
However, the survival time of the implants is much shorter than in patients with degenerative diseases.
In patients with progressive muscular dystrophy (PMD) invasive electrophysiologic studies can detect hidden intracardiac conduction disturbances.
The aim of this study was a long-term follow-up of these patients.
Twelve consecutive patients (9m, 3f, age 28 +/- 4 yrs) without cardiac symptoms and with normal echocardiographic findings were included in the study.
They suffered from different stages of PMD type Erb (n=4), Becker-Kiener (n=4), Duchenne (n=2) and Landouzy-Déjerine (n=2).
At the beginning of the study all patients underwent an invasive electrophysiologic study (EPS).
The follow-up of 5.5 yrs included regular clinical visits, ECGs, and Holter recordings (every 3 months) as well as an echocardiography every 6 months.
In 4 patients the EPS revealed a hidden interatrial conduction disturbance (AHRS-ACS 120 +/- 18ms), and in 10 pts an infrahisian conduction disturbance was found (HV max.
Conduction defects were seen independently from the type of PMD and the stage of the disease.
During the follow-up the initially hidden interatrial conduction disturbance became evident in the surface ECG in 2 of 4 pts.
One of them developed paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
Five of 10 pts with an initially hidden infrahisian conduction disturbance developed an AV block grade I-III and in one case additionally a bundle branch block.
Four of these pts - whose PMD showed progression or who developed congestive cardiomyopathy - needed pacemaker implantation because of a first-degree AV block + bifascicular bundle branch block (n=1), a Mobitz II second-degree AV block (n=1) or a third-degree AV block (n=2).
None of the pts with normal findings at the EPS showed abnormal p-waves, an AV block, or an intraventricular conduction disturbance during the follow-up.
We conclude that intracardiac conduction disturbances, especially infrahisian defects including high-degree AV blocks, are a common finding in pts with PMD.
Therefore a regular cardiological screening including an ECG and a Holter recording is reasonable in these patients.
Accidental hypothermia is defined as an unintentional decline in the core temperature below 35 °C and is caused by exposure to cold, drugs, endocrine dysfunction, central nervous system disorders, skin disorders, and trauma.
Depending on the degree of hypothermia, there is a progressive depression of metabolism in each organ system with specific alterations.
Bone is among the most common sites of metastatic disease in cancers of the breast, prostate, and lung.
The decision about systemic therapy depends on the histology, presence and extent of extraskeletal disease, and the performance status of the patient.
For patients with estrogen-receptor-positive breast cancer or prostate cancer, hormonal treatment represents the treatment of choice.
In estrogen-receptor-negative breast cancer, and for patients who have failed hormonal therapy or have liver metastases, chemotherapy should be initiated.
All patients with small-cell lung cancer should receive chemotherapy.
Bone metastases of differentiated thyroid cancers can be treated with radioisotopes.
In non-small-cell lung cancer or renal cell cancer, systemic chemotherapy should be confined to younger patients and patients in good general condition.
Radiologic assessment of responses of skeletal metastases to systemic therapy is often difficult.
New approaches in measuring bone metabolites in urine might prove helpful.
Although most prenatally diagnosed anatomic malformations are best managed after birth, we can presently offer prenatal therapy to an increasing number of fetuses with simple anatomical defects that have predictably devastating developmental consequences.
A condition amenable to prenatal intervention must fulfill a number of conditions.
It must be severe enough to warrant the risks associated with in utero treatment and must be reliably detectable before birth.
Furthermore, the pathophysiology must be reversible by fetal intervention, significantly improving the prognosis over postnatal treatment.
Current indication for prenatal intervention include decompression for obstructive uropathy, temporary tracheal occlusion for congenital diaphragmatic hernia, and tumor debulking for congenital cystic adenomatoid malformation of the lung and sacrococcygeal teratoma.
Prenatal repair of myelomeningocele is currently being developed but remains controversial since this is not a lethal malformation.
Maternal safety remains paramount in considering fetal intervention.
The main associated risks are pre-term labor and preterm premature rupture of membranes.
To reduce maternal morbidity and the risk of prematurity, minimally invasive fetoscopic techniques were developed and are increasingly employed.
These developments will in all probability reduce the importance of open fetal surgery in the future.
Methicillin-resistant S. aureus (MRSA) has become an important cause of severe infection in hospitalized patients all over the world.
In Germany a significant increase of nosocomial infections due to MRSA has occurred during the last 10 years.
Especially elderly patients with chronic illnesses are at increased risk of becoming colonized or infected with MRSA.
This report focuses on epidemiology and therapy of MRSA, and on the recommendations concerning management and prevention of spread of MRSA in hospitals and nursing homes.
During general anaesthesia gas climate significantly is improved by performance of low flow techniques.
Gas climatisation, however, markedly also will be influenced by the temperature loss at, and corresponding water condensation within the hoses, factors which are related to the technical design and material of the patient hose system.
The objective of this prospective study was to investigate 1. how anaesthetic gas climatisation during minimal flow anaesthesia is influenced by the technical design of different breathing hose systems in clinical practice.
2. to investigate, whether a sufficient gas climatisation also can be gained with higher fresh gas flows if that hose system is used, proven beforehand to optimally warming and humidifying the anaesthetic gases.
Introduction: Undifferentiated, embryonal sarcoma is a rare malignant tumour of the liver, the incidence of which is highest in children between 6 and 10 years of age (14.1 %).
Among the primary tumours of the liver in childhood it ranks in third place after hepatocellular carcinoma and focal nodular hyperplasia.
Embryonal sarcoma is much rarer in adults.
To our knowledge, only 18 cases have been published in the last 50 years.
Methods and results: We now present the case of a 29-year-old woman with spontaneous rupture of the liver caused by an undifferentiated sarcoma.
Conclusion: This case report illustrates the possibility of an embryonal sarcoma being the reason for spontaneous rupture of the liver.
The management of this case comprised primary tamponade, interventional embolisation of the feeding artery, and secondary resection under stable conditions.
Substance dependency is one of the most frequent disorders, which can be treated successfully by psychotherapy.
However reasons are discussed, why psychotherapists probably hesitate in treating these patients.
Insufficient psychotherapeutic education concerning dependency, structural problems, expected difficulties with these patients or expected poor treatment outcome may be overcome as well as blind areas in healthprofessionals' perception concerning dependency among their patients and themselves.
Though psychotherapy with addicts is sometimes exhausting, the readiness of psychotherapists to treat patients with substance disorders is increasing.
Diagnosis nowadays is based on the distinction between drug depencency and drug abuse on the one hand and substance induced disorders on the other hand.
Readiness for change and motivation for treatment are basic objects of psychotherapy in these patients.
Therapeutic approaches to deal with this promising aspect of psychotherapy are presented.
They are based on an empathic and clear therapeutic attitude.
They can be easily implemented in different settings.
At the end of the first part of this review in- patient and outpatient settings for the treatment of substance disorders are outlined.
This will be followed in the second part by an outline of different specific psychotherapeutic approaches.
The following experimental study was conducted to develop biocompatible methods of osteosynthesis in fractures of the distal radius and to evaluate their stability.
A model of dorsal wedge osteotomy in the distal radial metaphysis was used to develop the surgical technique and to test the stability of the alternative methods of osteosynthesis.
The concept for this model was based on commercially available materials which were either biodegradable or osteoconductive.
Four different forms of biocompatible osteosynthesis were compared to combined Kirschner wire osteosynthesis (KWO), our preferred method of treatment of unstable Colles fracture.
Biocompatible osteosynthesis was achieved with an invasivity and stability comparable to that of KWO.
In conclusion, injection osteosynthesis exceeded the other biocompatible methods of osteosynthesis in all respects.
Regarding the recent developments in injectable materials for osteosynthesis it offers the best perspective for clinical application.
The "pain in the lower limbs" (growing pain) represent one of the most frequent complaint pictures in the child orthopaedic consulting hour.
The delimitation compared to other diseases is difficult and laborious on account of many differential diagnoses.
Destination of our investigations was it to set up a standardized investigation diagram with recording all differential diagnoses.
In psychotherapy with patients who do not tolerate the conditions of the 'talking cure' because they tend to act instead of verbalizing their experiences interactive entanglements are rather common.
Often this is a consequence of nonverbal gestural behavior that directs interaction in the therapeutic dialogue while the exchange of words has taken a back seat.
The symbolic space of verbal understanding gets lost then.
Gestural behavior does not form an independent communication system as usage of 'body language' suggests.
Instead as permanent concomitant of utterances it has primarily the function of regulating the interaction of patient and psychotherapist.
The surgical treatment of varicous veins demands complete exclusion of the primary recirculation circuit.
The diagnosis is made on the basis of the clinical and ultrasound symptoms, on i.e.
If there is saphenous vein agreement between them, phlebography will yield no additional information concerning the strategy for operation.
The prospective comparative examination of non-invasive diagnostic methods versus phlebography shows different results in 12% of cases for the great saphenous vein and in 3% for the small with a correction of the operative procedure.
In 10 cases of incomplete trunk varicosis, only one diagnosis was correct with non-invasive measures.
This leads to the conclusion that phlebography should be done at the time of the preoperative examination if there are differences between the clinical and ultrasound symptoms.
Undislocated odontoid fractures may lead on the basis of conventional x-rays only to a wrong conclusion with regard to biomechanical aspect of stability.
In this aspect the classification based on Anderson and D'Alonzo takes a high risk to missunderstood the fracture stability and can results in a secondary fracture dislocation.
Therefore it is important to make the decision about operative versus nonoperative treatment on the base of the trauma mechanism.
In this case report we elucidate this problem and the higher risk of anterior approach for correction.
Furthermore a better classification of densfractures will be recommended.
In a period of 4 years between March 1994 and March 1998, 143 patients with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) underwent laparoscopic antireflux surgery.
According to manometric studies 76 patients had a short-floppy Nissen fundoplication, patients with impaired motility or paraesophageal hernias received a hemifundoplication (Toupet = 42, Dor/Thal = 25).
Recurrent reflux symptoms appeared in 6,3 % after mean 16,7 months follow-up (Nissen = 2.6 %, Toupet = 2.3 %, Dor/Thal = 24 %, P < 0.01).
Persistent dysphagia with reoperation occurred in 2.1 % (Nissen = 2.6 %, Toupet = 2.3 %, Dor/Thal = 0 %, n. s.).
The assessment of Visick's score at the latest control showed the following: Visick I = 63.6 %, Visick II = 30.1 %, Visick III = 6.3 %, Visick IV = 0 %.
The outcome of the operation was rated "excellent" or "good" by 91.6 % of the patients.
In contrast to auditory brainstem potentials (ABR), a more apically defined generation of middle latency evoked potentials (MLR) can be assumed due to the longer integration time present.
To date, the effect of stimulus frequency spectra on MLR has not been completely known.
By using masking with high-pass filtered white noise in 12 normal-hearing adults, we measured the dependence of amplitude and latency of ABR and MLR on filter frequency.
No differences were found between the masking effects for ABR and MLR evoked by tone bursts of 0.5 and 2 kHz.
The high-pass masking of click stimuli showed a greater influence on the amplitude and latency of the ABR than on MLR.
These different qualities have to be considered clinically when evaluating the methods and results of hearing testing with acoustic evoked potentials.
Our findings show that MLR evoked by tone bursts should be used for the frequency selective diagnosis of hearing thresholds, especially in low- frequency ranges.
Objectives: To clarify the incidence of sudden arrythmic death and associated risk factors in patients after orthotopic heart transplantation (HTx).
Background: Some reports indicate a significant rate of sudden death in heart transplant recipients limiting long-term success of the operation.
Incidence, underlying risk factors, etiologies, and methods for prediction or prevention of sudden death are poorly defined.
Methods: Retrospective analysis of our cohort of 120 cardiac allograft recipients surviving the perioperative phase out of a total of 142HTx patients of the years 1984-1999.
Clinical events (death, mode of death, Re-HTx, resuscitation) were noted and analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method and related to the patients' characteristics by multivariate analysis.
Sudden death in or out of hospital was defined as death within one hour of symptoms or unwittnessed death.
Clinical and postmortem findings (autopsies are available in 12/18 sudden death patients) were correlated to the mode of death.
Results: During a mean follow-up interval of 4.6 +/- 3.5 years, 45 patients died (38%).
The mode of death was non-sudden in 27 inpatients.
18 deaths were sudden, 14 of these out of hospital.
In addition there were three cardiac arrests with successful resuscitations, one of those patients died three month later suddenly, giving a number of a total of 21 cardiac arrests in 20HTx patients.
The actuarial risk of cardiac arrest was 20% after 6 and 40% after 12 years.
Based on postmortem analysis the etiologies of the events were attributed to transplant vasculopathy in 15 patients, rejection in 5 patients (International Society for Heart and Lung Transplantation grade >3A), and to unknown reasons in one.
All three patients successfully resuscitated from cardiac arrest had documented bradycardic events (2xtotal AV block, 1xsinus arrest).
Pacemakers were implanted in these patients.
One of those died suddenly 2 months later.
Significantly more HTx patients dying suddenly are smokers, had a lower left ventricular ejection fraction, and worse hemodynamics.
QRS width and PR interval were significantly broadened in patients with transplant vasculopathy and cardiac arrest.
In three cases, a decrease in heart rate variability, the occurence of sustained VT, and ST segment depressions prior to the cardiac arrest could be demonstrated.
Conclusions: Sudden death occurs at a substantial rate after HTx.
As HTx patient numbers are rising constantly, sudden cardiac death in this population will represent a significant problem.
In our patients about 75% of the arrests can be attributed to graft-vasculopathy and one quarter to acute rejection.
Diagnostic strategies have to be developed to detect patients at risk.
Interestingly, some events may be caused from bradyarrhythmic rhythm disturbances.
Introduction: Traumatic dislocation is the most severe ligamentous injury of the knee.
The indications for operative and conservative treatment are still controversial.
Methods and results: From 1974 to 1994, 38 patients with documented knee dislocation were treated operatively in our department.
Thirty-four of these patients were followed up for 3-16 years (mean: 8.6 years).
In 29 cases of the follow-up group, reconstruction of both cruciate ligaments was performed.
In the remaining cases the cruciate ligaments were left alone.
At the time of follow-up, 90 % of the patients showed good knee stability, but 90 % had lack of motion as well.
Post-traumatic osteoarthritis was mostly mild to moderate.
Thirty-five percents of the patients achieved excellent to good results in the Lysholm Score.
Conclusions: Positive prognostic factors were an age less than 40 years at the time of the accident, a low-energy trauma, e. g., a sports-related injury, early reconstruction of both cruciate ligaments, and initial postoperative functional treatment.
Huntington's disease (HD) is member of a growing family of neurodegenerative diseases which are caused by a CAG-Triplet expansion in the coding region of their respective genes.
The results of the research of the last years is very suggestive of a common pathomechanisms of all these diseases even though their clinical appearance may be quite different.
The development of new animal models by transferring the human gene defect into the mouse genome has led to the finding of so-called intranuclear inclusion bodies.
This new observation allowed to come closer to solving the problem how this genetic defect causes neurodegeneration.
Recent studies on transgenic HD mice could also demonstrate a possible connection between the genetic defect and glutamate exitotoxicity in the neurodegenerative process of HD which had been emphasized by earlier animal models of the disease.
Transgenic animal models of HD will have an important impact on the understanding of the disease mechanisms and may contribute to a faster development and testing of new therapeutic approaches.
Background: The Whipple operation (PD) is the standard operation in patients with cancer of the head of the pancreas and the periampullary region.
However, the pylorus-preserving duodenopancreatectomy (PPPD) is supposed to be superior in gastrointestinal function.
Methods: In a prospective randomized trial (October 1994-October 1998) PD and PPPD were compared in terms of global and gastrointestinal quality of life, operation time, duration of hospital stay, transfusions and perioperative morbidity.
Quality of life was analyzed under standardized conditions (EORTC-QLQ-30) pre- and postoperatively (weeks 2, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60).
Results: A duodenopancreatectomy was performed in 48 patients because of cancer of the head of the pancreas (n = 38) and the periampullary region (n = 10) (PD, n = 24; PPPD, n = 24).
The PD and PPPD groups did not differ according to age, gender or UICC stage.
Operation time was shorter in the PPPD group (206  +/-  48 vs 306  +/-  54 min) (P < 0.05).
Morbidity did not differ between the two groups (PPPD 20 % vs PD 30 %, P > 0.05).
While there was no difference in global quality of life, gastrointestinal quality of life was postoperatively increased in the PPPD group regarding appetite, nausea and diarrhea (P < 0.05).
While the preoperative body weight was reached after 6 months in 85 % of the PPPD group (n = 20), this was true in only 60 % of the PD-group (n = 14) (P < 0.05).
Conclusion: PPPD seems to be associated with a better postoperative gastrointestinal quality of life than PD.
Oxygen uptake (V.O2) and carbon dioxide elimination (V.CO2) can be measured with an indirect calorimeter; this method is well established in routine monitoring of ICU patients to evaluate metabolic state as a reflection of stress.
In various experimental studies it was demonstrated that anaesthetics can influence whole-body metabolism.
The purpose of this study was to examine whether indirect calorimetry can be used intraoperatively during routine anaesthesia and whether presumable changes in metabolism can be detected immediately.
Abdominal aortic cross-clamping changes circulation, nutritional supply of the lower extremities and thus V.O2 and V.CO2.
We therefore used this operation for our study.
For certain indications, anterior fusion of the lumbar spine is a standard operation.
The surgeon specializing in operations on the vertebral column must leam to utilize the advantages of laparoscopic surgery.
However, an absolute must before applying the technique to humans is adequate training in its use in living animals.
For this purpose, the pig is a highly suitable model.
The surgical team comprises a surgeon experienced in spinal procedures, an abdominal surgeon with expertise in laparoscopic surgery and an experienced cameraman.
In the animal model, a change in position - organ preparation from the cranial direction, a suprasymphysial approach to the vertebrae - has proved expedient.
Operational interventions can be planned and simulated accurately with the help of a three-dimensional reconstruction of the anatomical bone structures, created from the tomographic data of a patient.
Computer-assisted navigation systems or robotic systems can assist the intraoperative realization of the planned intervention and may support the spatial orientation within the operational field.
The desmoplastic type of the squamous cell carcinoma (DSCC) of the skin is an entity which is readily distinguished by light microscopy.
The DSCC has fine branches surrounded by a desmoplastic stroma and shows in some cases typical perineural, perivascular and widespread intradermal invasion (maximum 6 cm!).
This type accounts for 8.2% (n=44) of our collective of 594 squamous cell carcinomas (SCC) of the skin and vermilion border.
Clinically DSCC look like other malignant epithelial tumors of the skin.
All tumors were followed up for at least 3 years (maximum 10 years).
The local recurrence rate was high (24.3%) even though micrographic surgery was carried out.
The rate of local or regional metastasis was also very high (22.7%).
In comparison the recurrence rate and the rate of metatasis of the remaining common 91.8% SCC's (n=550) was low: 2.6% and 3.8%, respectively.
The DSCC seems to be identical with the so called neurotropic SCC, the fine stranded SCC or the SCC with perineural invasion which have a high rate of local recurrence and metastasis as well, but DSCC is a better generic histopathologic term for the entire group.
The DSCC is best treated with micrographic surgery and wider safety margins than any other type and should be followed up very frequently.
In the final stage of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) the majority of patients develop chronic respiratory failure due to respiratory muscle weakness.
The interaction between the patient with ALS and the physician should be characterized by continuous communication, especially with respect to the prospect of ventilatory failure and for support.
The patient and his family must be informed thoroughly about the natural history and the prognosis of ALS, depending on the individual disease process.
Already in the early stage of the disease coping strategies should be discussed so that imminent respiratory emergencies can be handled.
If ALS patients are not informed about the acute respiratory insufficiency they run the risk of having to be intubated and mechanically ventilated over a long term.
Background: The advent of multidetector CT (MDCT) constitutes a quantum leap creating a wealth of new opportunities in medical imaging.
However, while the basic principles of spiral CT still apply, we are now challenged to rethink our strategies in planning a CT study to take full advantage of the increased capabilities of MDCT.
Extracorporeal photophoresis (ECP), a therapeutic modality that has been under investigation for some years, is based on separation of a leucocyte/lymphocyte-enriched cell fraction from the peripheral blood, extracorporeal treatment of the cells with 8-MOP/UVA and subsequent reinfusion of the cells in the patient.
Its main effects seem to consist in changes to the immunologic behaviour of the photoinactivated/modulated cells.
The immune response of the host is obviously stimulated by this treatment.
ECP is normally performed for 4 h per day on 2 consecutive days every 4 weeks.
The treatment is well tolerated and causes few side effects.
In our department, 1210 ECP treatments were administered to 41 patients between 1990 and 1994 and a preliminary evaluation was performed.
These patients included 21 with cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL), 10 with progressive systemic scleroderma, 4 with chronic graft-versus-host disease and 1 each with pemphigus vulgaris, epidermolysis bullosa acquisita, lupus erythematosus and cutaneous mucinosis.
Patients with erythroderma and preserved immunocompetence achieved the best responses of all patients with CTCL.
A treatment combining ECP with rlFN-, PUVA and/or radiation was also successful in patients with tumour-stage CTCL and lymph node involvement.
Progressive systemic scleroderma responded in more than 50% of our cases.
Treatment results were impressive in 4 patients with chronic graft-versus-host disease presenting with sclerodermatous and lichenoid changes of the skin and mucous membranes.
A clear improvement was also observed in the patient with pemphigus vulgaris refractory to standard therapies and in another patient with scleromyxoedema (Arndt-Gottron syndrome).
The effectiveness of ECP seems to be quite well established in CTCL, but remains to be examined in autoimmune dermatoses.
ECP is an attractive addition to the dermatological therapies available but our experience is still preliminary.
Opportunistic infections after long-term treatment with azathioprine (AZA) have not been noted in patients with myasthenia gravis (MG).
We report on a 56-year-old woman with generalized MG who presented with cytomegalovirus infection after being treated with AZA for 17 years.
The indication for immunosuppressive treatment in MG should be regularly reconfirmed, particularly since at least 50% of patients can discontinue AZA after two to four years without risk of exacerbation.
Failure to find the gallbladder at the usual or most common atypical sites during surgery for cholecystolithiasis is a rare but known problem.
Although ultrasonography has 95 % sensitivity for the diagnosis of cholelithiasis, occasionally a small contracted gallbladder with stones and chronic cholecystitis will be difficult to visualize and can lead to erroneous interpretation.
We report on the case of a patient presenting with abdominal colic and ultrasonographically confirmed cholecystolithiasis.
During laparoscopic cholecystectomy, the gallbladder could not be detected.
After laparoscopic staging followed by endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography and abdominal computed tomography, agenesis of the gallbladder was confirmed.
This method can be considered for diagnosis of gallbladder agenesis without the need for laparotomy and thorough exploration.
Right colon diverticulitis, representing 1-3,6 % of cases of diverticular disease is an uncommon cause of right lower quadrant pain.
Its presentation is difficult to distinguish from acute appendicitis.
Patients are between 35 and 50 years old, have a history of 2-3 days of abdominal pain and few gastrointestinal symptoms.
The diagnosis is best confirmed by computed tomography and colonoscopy.
Conservative treatment is justified in uncomplicated disease, whereas perforations, abcesses and inflammatory tumors require resection.
We describe the cases of six patients treated at our institution from 1991 to 1996.
Presentation, geographic variations, diagnostic procedures and management are discussed.
Malignant melanoma is the most important differential diagnosis in both clinical and histologic examination of melanocytic nevi.
UV exposure with an erythemagenic dose and mechanical irritation of melanocytic nevi are able to induce reversible morphologic changes which simulate malignant melanoma.
These changes are associated with an increased expression of HMB-45 antigen.
In addition, an increased proliferation and repair activity is observed after UV exposure.
The increased number of melanocytes located in suprabasal layers of the epidermis is accompanied by a change in keratinocyte adhesion molecule expression.
The UV light is also able to influence the adhesive properties of melanocytes in vitro.
Therefore, both keratinocyte-derived factors and direct influence of UV on the melanocyte system are probably responsible for the morphologic changes.
While these exogenously evoked changes are reversible, the potential biologic relevance - especially a possible role in the initiation of the carcinogenesis cascade - reguires clarification.
Objectives Minimally invasive surgical procedure for removal of the trochanteric bursa and, if necessary, exostosectomy and/or fixation of the iliotibial tract at the greater trochanter.
The treatment of osteonecrosis of the femoral head involves a continuum based on a radiographic spectrum of disease.
Core decompression or pharmacological agents can be utilized for the earliest small or medium-sized pre-collapsed lesions.
For these types of lesions, osteotomy has been tried by various authors with moderate success.
For small or medium lesions that are post-collapse, various bone grafting procedures have been used.
This approach should be tempered with a look at the articular cartilage if this is damaged or the lesion is large.
Limited femoral resurfacing can be used for hips that do not have acetabular involvement.
If there is acetabular involvement, total hip replacement remains the treatment of choice.
Guillain Barré syndrome (GBS) is an acute, inflammatory, demyelinating disease of the peripheral nerve system.
Clinical hallmarks are symmetric muscle paralysis, areflexia and pronouced autonomic disturbances.
Respiratory failure and cardiovascular instability are the main reasons for intensive care support in patients with GBS.
The present report of a 33 year old man with Miller-Fisher syndrome, a variant of the GBS, discusses the management of patients with GBS in the intensive care unit.
The immunocytological detection of disseminated epithelial cells in bone marrow in patients with breast cancer has been performed at many hospitals and institutes since the early 1980s.
Despite numerous publications in this field, it has not been possible to standardize the method and  establish the ideal antibody, either nationally or internationally.
Molecular biological methods using PCR technology could extend the diagnostic spectrum.
However, one of the major problems in breast cancer is the lack of a disease-specific marker gene.
As a result, immunocytology is still the standard procedure for tumour cell detection.
Objective: We report our initial experience with an improved model of the laryngeal mask airway, the intubating laryngeal mask airway (ILMA, commercial name Fastrach), which was designed by A.I.J.
Brain to improve blind endotracheal intubation through a laryngeal mask.
For several years it has been argued that a chest tube should be placed at the scene of an accident if thoracic trauma is suspected.
However, during emergency treatment in hospital it has been observed that a high number of such tubes have been placed incorrectly.
To validate this impression, we conducted a retrospective analysis of the clinical course of 33 trauma victims who had had chest tubes placed at the scene of accident.
It was found that 39.4% of the chest tubes were placed completey incorrectly and 21.2% required some correction; 39.4% were placed correctly.
In two cases (6.1%) life-threatening complications developed because of the chest tube, necessitating a thoracotomy in 1 patient and repeated pericardial punction in the other.
Based on the results of our study we believe that a more critical attitude should be adopted to the placement of chest tubes at the scene of the accident.
Based upon the observation that some current approaches of quality assurance do not really come up to the specific characteristics of different psychotherapeutic settings, this article discusses quality assurance from the perspective of inpatient group psychotherapy.
It differentiates issues of structural quality (e.g.
the importance of the institutional frame, rules for indication, or treatment concepts), process quality with special consideration of problems connected with short term group treatment, and outcome quality, which in order to be assured needs the development of methods which reflect the group setting adequately.
We report on a case of extensive intraabdominal calcifications resulting from previous bacterial peritonitis.
The patient suffered from an obstructive ileus.
Relaparotomy was performed and the calcifications resected.
To avoid recurrence, radiotherapy (15 Gy) and indomethacin were given.
A literature review revealed only two cases of intraabdominal calcifications following peritonitis.
In Germany there is still an urgent need for action in regard to screening for breast cancer.
The announcement of research projects for mammography screening proves this.
The following reports the results of the Munich field study.
In 2 years, 2489 breast cancer cases were registered (status 6/98).
Screening data were available for 1319 patients.
The reduction in mortality, found in randomized studies, due to mammography in women over 50 years old was confirmed.
A relative reduction of 44.8% in 10-year mortality could be estimated through mammography and 25.1% through palpation, in comparison with "doing nothing".
We could also estimate the participation of screening and the used methods in the Munich region.
If the mammographies carried out today were used at 2-year intervals for women aged between 50 and 70 years, then the mammography screening could be performed with no additional costs for 70% of the women.
The known facts regarding the population-based mortality and regarding the acceptance of the palpation screening and frequency of mammography are additional aspects for inclusion in the discussion of what research projects in Germany are and what they should fulfill.
Insufficiency after anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) reconstruction is a typical complication.
Between 1 January 1992 and 31 December 1997 a total of 604 operations at the ACL were performed in the traumatology department of Nuremberg hospital.
During the same period 48 "transplant failures" were treated.
There were various reasons for the failure of the transplant, some of them technical, occurring during the operation or during aftercare.
Another reason for a re-rupture of the transplant was by trauma.The different reasons for the failure of the transplant were analysed in our patient population.
The 48 patients were classified into five groups depending on the primary operation and the means of treatment (I = ACL sutures, II = artificial ligament, III = semitendinosus tendon, IV and V = ipsi- or contralateral bone-patellar-bone graft harvest after ACL reconstruction), so that the different ways of treatment were better comparable.
Of the 48 patients 36 were followed up over an average of 2 1/2 years using the Lysholm scores and the OAK scores.
The total score of the 36 patients was 81 points and can be valued as good using the evaluation scale of Lysholm and Gillquist.
Using the OAK score we found an average of 71 to 81 points in the different groups; results in the group with the ipsilateral bone-tendon-bone graft harvest after ACL reconstruction were the worst.
The totalscore using the OAK score was 74 points and was considered "moderate".
The score results were discussed and compared with the current literature.
In this case report, we focus on the importance of scurvy as a differential diagnosis in a newborn presenting with swollen legs.
Scurvy is rare in highly developed countries and often overlooked.
Medical history, clinical symptoms and radiological findings are crucial for diagnosis.
The diagnosis is confirmed by successful treatment with ascorbic acid.
Hemangiomas of the skull base are rare neoplasms and are easily misdiagnosed as acoustic neuromas when occurring in the internal auditory canal.
Among these tumors, ossifying hemangiomas are characterized histologically be newly formed bone tissue within their substance.
We describe a 26-year old female patient who presented with left-sided sensorineural hearing loss and tinnitus.
T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a bright space-occupying lesion of the internal auditory canal with extension to the geniculate ganglion.
Bony erosions of the internal auditory canal were proved by high-resolution computed tomography.
A hemangioma was suspected preoperatively and was resected via a middle cranial fossa approach.
Histologically, new bone formations were found in a cavernous hemangioma.
In general, radiologic findings can suggest a hemangioma of the internal auditory canal and help to differentiate it from acoustic neuroma.
Based on the histological findings of intratumoral bone formation, the hemangioma in our patient was classified as an ossifying hemangioma.
However, reactive bone formation at the borders of a tumor in the internal auditory canal can also be mistaken as new intratumoral bone formation.
Myocardial ischemia results in myocardial dysfunction.
Recovery may be delayed ("stunning"), or persistent if perfusion remains reduced ("hibernation") and ischemia may go on to necrosis, thus, contributing to chronic heart failure.
In addition, myocardium not directly affected by ischemia may undergo adaptive processes like hypertrophy and dilatation, which may result in chronic left heart failure.
This process is characterized by hemodynamic, neurohumoral, and progressive morphologic changes of the heart which are closely interrelated.
Hemodynamic changes basically consist of an increase in left ventricular filling pressure and a decrease in global ejection fraction, and, in most cases years after myocardial infarction, in an increase in systemic vascular resistance and right atrial pressure.
Neurohumoral changes consist of an increase in plasma catecholamines, atrial natriuretic factor and vasopressin, and in an activation of the renin-angiotensin-system.
Plasma endothelin-1 was recently reported to be increased in patients with heart failure, and prognosis was related to endothelin levels.
Diminished response of vessels to endothelium (EDRF/NO) dependent vasodilatation suggests impairment of vascular endothelium in heart failure.
Local changes of cardiac neurohumoral systems could contribute to structural changes of the heart, e.g., systemic activation to hemodynamic changes.
Structural changes of the heart are characterized by an increase in volume and thickness of surviving myocardium and an expansion of ischemic and necrotic myocardium.
Molecular control of these processes which include various cell types, such as cardiomyocytes and cardiofibroblasts, are currently an issue of intense research and could result in specific therapeutic importance.
Postoperative infection in the locomotor system may lead to malpractice suits.
The aim of the study was to determine the success rate of these claims and the type of expert-confirmed medical negligence so that strategies for avoiding such negligence can be offered.
A total of 261 decrees concerning suspected malpractice after postoperative infection in the locomotor system were retrospectively evaluated.
Of these, 43.7 % claims were successful.
The most frequent type of negligence was late diagnosis (34.2 %), followed by inconsistant treatment (27.2 %) and insufficient surgical revision (5.3 %).
In 33.3 %, combined types of negligence were found.
Most frequently, negligence was suspected after infection following hand surgery and internal fixation of long bones.
The highest success rate of claims was seen after puncture of joints (69.2 %).
Insufficient documentation was confirmed in 15.3 %.
The majority of negligence resulted from diagnostic and therapeutic doubts, which could be avoided, e. g., by a clear definition of infection, consultation of a second opinion, a 2nd-look operation, undelayed and radical surgical revision, painstaking follow-up and disciplined documentation.
Abstract   Patient satisfaction plays an increasing part in the analysis of the outcome of medical treatment.
The aim of the study was to compare health-related quality of life in patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm after endovascular or conventional surgery.
A total of 40 patients were included (20 treated by endovascular and 20 by conventional surgery).
A questionnaire with 28 items similar to the SF-36 was answered during scheduled appointments.
On the third postoperative day, the conventionally treated patients were more frequently confined to bed (80% vs. 32%) and complained of intervention-related pain (90% vs. 42%) and incisional pain (26% vs. 15%); 55% of the patients suffered from obstipation (vs. 5% of the endovascular group).
Furthermore, the preoperative psychological stress seemed to be intensified.
In comparable percentage, both the endovascular and conventionally treated patients were limited in social activities perioperatively.
Sexual dysfunction was more frequent in the conventional group (33% vs. 13% three months postoperative).
In addition, the conventionally treated patients were more limited in their physical activities (25% vs. 40%) and had more fear of ambulation (35% vs. 6%).
The patients treated by an endovascular approach complained about frequent examinations (39% vs. 5%) that were often related to X-ray exposure (67% vs. 20%).
All of the conventionally operated patients had a sense of improvement (vs. 89% of the endovascular group); nevertheless only 28% felt completely healthy, compared to 11% of the endovascular treated patients.
Advantages of the endovascular treated patients were "short hospital stay", "decreased pain", "smaller scars", and a "shorter confinement to bed".
After intervention the conventionally treated patients were more limited in almost all quality-of-life aspects.
After 3 months, differences between the groups decreased except for sexual dysfunction and limited physical activities.
The patients treated by endovascular surgery complained more about frequent X-ray examinations than the conventionally treated group.
In the majority of ventilated patients endotracheal intubation is required only for a short time period.
However, about 20% of the patients require prolonged mechanical ventilation.
Apart from dysfunction of the central nervous system with a reduced respiratory drive, the vast majority of patients being difficult to wean suffer from either an increased load or a decreased capacity of their respiratory muscles.
Furthermore, beside compromised respiratory mechanics other causes of difficult weaning are, e.g., left heart failure, inadequate sedation, neuropsychiatric issues, malnutrition and aspiration.
The mere application of a consistent weaning strategy (independent from its concrete content) leads to an improved success rate.
In this article three essential aspects of a weaning strategy are dealt with: 1) The concept of interventions (in particular focusing on mechanical ventilation modes unloading respiratory muscles), 2) pathophysiologically based parameters to predict weaning success or failure and 3) organisation of the T-tube trials.
A new approach in weaning of long-term ventilated patients is non-invasive mechanical ventilation (NMV).
Compared to invasive mechanical ventilation NMV aims at reducing weaning time, decreasing complication rate and improving prognosis.
Finally, the last section addresses terminal weaning.
The psychoanalytic cure is characterized by a basic antinomy of time and time-lessness.
Freud based the daily psychoanalytic work on the order of the mechanic clock (the time of the machine) to regulate a relationship which is unique in our culture.
The temporal order of the cure responds to the logic of the temporal path.
On the opposite, in the world of the unconscious the familiar concepts of cause and effect as well as of before and after are abolished.
"Symmetrical madness" prevails (Matte Blanco).
The temporal core of the analytic situation is bi-logical.
This ambiguity is reflected in the technical principles.
Free association breaks through the logic of the temporal path, again and again.
There are, however, different defence strategies defusing its unforeseeability.
The tension between the time that determines the analytic setting and the timelessness of free association gets once again a process of temporal order going.
Present social changes and in connection with them the changed time strategies endanger the temporal order of the analytic cure.
Several historical reports focusing on the heredity of migraine, as well as recent studies on its epidemiology and molecular biology, have revealed evidence for a decisive role of genetic factors in the aetiopathogenesis of familial migraine.
Indeed, family studies, segregation analyses and twin studies have shown that genetic factors play an important role in disposition towards migraine but could not explain the entire aetiopathogenesis.
The influence of extragenetic factors, however, remains mostly unknown.
Recent linkage analyses have provided evidence for genetic heterogeneity.
A locus for Familial Hemiplegic Migraine (FHM), the only known type of migraine that follows autosomal-dominant transmission, has been linked to chromosome 19p13 but genetic heterogeneity has also been shown, i. e. different types of migraine could be excluded from this locus.
Further investigations should concentrate on identifying the FHM gene on chromosome 19p13, on linkage analyses with markers for different susceptibility genes, and on genomic analyses of highly informative pedigrees.
This would lead to further clues to the pathogenesis underlying migraine and, thus, to therapeutic developments.
Radiographic findings suggestive of osteopenia and osteoporosis are frequently encountered in daily medical practice and can result from a wide spectrum of diseases ranging from highly prevalent causes such as postmenopausal and involutional osteoporosis to very rare endocrinologic and hereditary or acquired disorders.
As bone mass is lost, changes in the trabecular and cortical bone structure occur.
The changes that are visible on conventional radiographs may give specific information on the etiology of the underlying disease.
Even though conventional radiography is indispensable in the differential diagnosis of osteopenia and osteoporosis, visual assessment of bone mass and its changes is subjective and strongly depends on the radiographic technique.
With radiogrammetry and radiographic absorptiometry two methods exist that rely on conventional radiography and allow for a quantification of bone mass.
This article describes the author's experience during the 1-year AGA Pittsburgh fellowship from 1 April 1996 to 31 March 1997.
The article is focused on the work in the Musculoskeletal Research Center and the Center for Sports Medicine of the Department of Orthopedic Surgery in Pittsburgh.
The author describes projects on the biomechanics of the cruciate ligaments, using robotic technology.
Organizational and social aspects of the life in Pittsburgh are discussed.
The different subgroups of hypercalciuria cannot be separated clearly by the Pak calcium-load test.
To improve the diagnosis and therapy we examined all relevant parameters of calcium metabolism in 32 patients with calcium urolithiasis and hypercalciuria (> 6.25 mmol/day).
We also conducted bone mineral density measurements as well as the Pak calcium-load test.
In most cases the pathophysiological constellations which Pak takes as the basis for his classification of hypercalciuria could not be shown.
To date, diagnostics only insufficiently explains the genesis of hypercalciuria (except pHPT).
As a consequence, a therapeutic problem arises: a low-calcium diet should not be generally recommended, since some patients may develop osteopenia.
From our investigation the following diagnostic and therapeutic conclusions can be drawn: (1) Hypercalciuria in primary hyperparathyroidism should be treated by surgical removal of the adenoma.
(2) The parathormone-independent osteogenic form should be treated with thiazides.
(3) Hypercalciuria with increased 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D should be treated by low-calcium diet.
A 58-year old man with wilson's disease sustained a bilateral spontaneous rupture of the quadriceps tendon.
The histological investigation showed advanced degeneration of tendon structure and cupper deposits.
After tenosuture the patient had complete cure with full range of movement.
We discuss about relation of wilson x s disease, cupper deposits and degenerative changes of tendon tissue.
Within the framework of the National Health Interview and Examination Survey 1998 the Short Form Questionnaire SF-36 has been applied to measure the health related quality of life (HRQOL).
This opened more opportunities than simply creating a new normative sample for the German adult population.
Thus, the very complex interdependence between morbidity, satisfaction, risk factors, health related behaviours, social status, age and sex on the one side and the subjective assessment of health related quality of life on the other hand may be investigated.
First results of the Survey data are presented which open the discussion of the possibilities and limits of the SF-36 instrument for measuring health related quality of life at the population level.
The von Willebrand's Disease affects about 1-3 % of the population and it is undiagnosed in most people.
Originally described by the Finish physician Erik von Willebrand in 1926 this disorder is associated with mucous membran bleeding including epistaxis, hypermenorhoea and excessive bleeding from surgery and dental procedures.
In von Willebrands disease the patients have a quantitative or qualitative abnormality in the von Willebrand Factor (vWF) which has two major functions: it serves by bridging between platelets and injury site in the blood vessel wall, and it circulates as a complex with factor VIII, protecting it from rapid degradation.
More than 20 different types and subtypes of vWD have been described but almost all patients can be classified as having 1 of the 2 most common types of vWD.
About 70 % of patients have type 1 and about 10-20 % present themself with type 2A and 2B vWD type 3 in about 10 %.
By taking a clinical history of bleeding it is important to think about vWD and to make the appropriate diagnosis.
If the vWD is suspected diagnostic tests should include an activated partial thromboplastin time, bleeding time, factor VIII:C, Ristocetin cofactor, and vWF antigen.
Additional testing of ristocetin induced plattlet adhesion (RIPA), the multimeric structure and collagen binding test and gen-analysis allow diagnosing the different types of v. Willebrand Disease.
The treatment of choice in mild forms is the synthetic agent desmopressin.
In patients with severe type 1, type 2B, 2N and type 3 or in people who do not response to desmopressin, the appropriate treatment is a factor VIII concentrate that is rich of vWF.
Until now no recommendations in the orthopaedic literature have been found regarding diagnosis and treatment of vWS patients.
Based on the experience with 43 orthopaedic patients presenting vWD over the last 15 years a contemporary guideline for the successful perioperative management of vWD in orthopaedic surgery is presented.
In a close collaboration between the orthopaedic surgeon and the specialized haemostaseologist every invasive procedure in patients with vWD can be undertaken without the risk of excessive bleeding.
Patients with a prior myocardial infarction (MI) have a high risk of perioperative reinfarction compared with the normal population (5%-8% vs. 0.1%-0.7%) [10].
According to Rao [13], a reduction of this risk is possible when patients are monitored invasively and all haemodynamic parameters are kept within the physiological range.
In most institutions it is not feasible to treat patients as Rao recommended: this would overstrain both hospital structure and financial resources.
We studied the incidence of perioperative MI and other cardiac events in patients with prior MI.
During the study period the anaesthesia and intensive care methods of our institution were neither changed nor influenced.
In addition to this clinical evaluation, we performed perioperative Holter electrocardiographic monitoring and measured serum levels of the recently introduced marker troponin T (parts II and III).
Small basal cell carcinomas of the trunk are usually regarded as relatively harmless.
In contrast, large and ulcerating basal cell carcinomas may become a therapeutic challenge with a less favourable prognosis and high risk of recurrence.
The development of mutilating giant basal cell carcinomas appears less due to the biological aggressive character of the tumors, but rather to the patients' attitude of neglect.
The case of a 62-year-old patient, featuring such attitude, demonstrates how a common basal cell carcinoma of the trunk can grow over a period of years to a troublesome ulcerating tumor.
This epidemiologic, retrospective follow-up mortality study is based on the data gathered in the department of forensic medicine at the University Hospital of Johann Wolfgang Goethe University in Frankfurt/Main.
Over a period of 21 years (1972-1992), roughly 21,000 forensic autopsies revealed 39 cases (0.19%) of natural deaths occuring during sexual activity.
Except for two women, all of these cases were men of an average age of 61.3 years.
The most frequent cause of death was myocardial infarction (n=21/53.8%), three of these cases involving pericardial tamponade accompanied by myomalacia.
The medical history of twelve of the deceased showed a previous myocardial infarction.
Most of the deaths took place during or after sexual intercourse or manual stimulation.
In most cases sudden death occured during the sexual act with a prostitute.
The annual incidence of sudden cardiovascular deaths during sexual activity is estimated to be 0.2/100,000 men.
The risk for women is lower by a factor of 12.
Problem: An investigation into CT-controlled carve-suction biopsy for a histological clarification of indefinite intrathoracic masses.
Current concepts in treating arthritis by gene transfer are described, including different vector systems and strategies of gene transfer into target cells.
Promissing antiarthritic gene products are a variety of growth factors which facilitate increased matrix synthesis and mitogensis in articular chondrocytes.
Furthermore, rheumatoid joint destruction can be treated genetically by the transfer of certain antiinflammatory cytokine genes, which provide locally high concentrations of the antiinflammatory gene product.
First clinical trails using the IRAP gene (interleukin I receptor antagonist protein) to eliminate the inflammatory reaction caused by interleukin I in rheumatoid joints are on its way.
In order to investigate potential improvement in cartilage regeneration retroviral TGF- gene transfer in rabbit articular chondrocytes has been carried out.
The TGF- group showed an in vitro increase in collagen type II neosynthesis by 304 %, compared to normal chondrocytes.
Spreading depression is a fascinating phenomenon that can be provoked by chemical, electrical or mechanical stimuli of the cortex.
Spreading depression-like transient depolarizations are observed in the periinfarct tissue after focal ischemia.
The reduction in electrical activity and a negative direct current potential shift propagating over the cortex with a rate of 2-5 mm/minute are the physiological hallmarks.
It is thought that spreading depression and peri-infarct depolarizations might play a role in the pathogenesis of migraine and stroke.
However, these events have never been detected in humans.
This paper reviews the physiological characteristics of spreading depression and peri-infarct depolarizations and discusses their potential role in migraine and stroke.
Because of the shifting age peak, measles, mumps and rubella will be more and more a danger for adults.
The MMR combined vaccination reveals an effective method for prevention of these diseases and their consecutive symptoms.
By means of the twice-done MMR vaccination measles, mumps and the congenital rubella syndrome could be eliminated.
With the increasing demands on hospitals for improved quality and lower costs, hospitals have been forced to reevaluate their manner of operation and quality assurance programms.
Hospitals have also been faced with customer dissatisfaction and intense competition.
This article reviews current quality-management systems and examines their position in dermatology.
The continuous follow-up of all cruciate ligament lesions showed the correctness of patient-adapted procedures.
While the gold standard for repair is a replacement procedure, direct repair with autologous augmentation is an excellent option in adolescents.
The results of 13 single-stage reconstructions of large and complex defects in the head and neck by using eight free radial forearm flaps as well as five pectoralis major myocutaneous flaps were analyzed.
No complete flap loss occurred in any case.
The results with radial forearm flap reconstructions proved to be better functionally and aesthetically.
Due to the time needed for the microvascular anastomoses, the length of the operations was sometimes prolonged.
Pectoralis major flaps were found to be more difficult to handle and were used in those cases in which the application of free radial forearm flaps was expected to produce higher risks.
Psychotherapists have the alternative, to design quality assurance within certain boundaries by themselves, or otherwise leave this important task to external instances.
Those will apply their own criteria in developing a concept.
This paper discusses the question, how far quality assurance in the field of analytic psychotherapy has to accept the definitions and concepts from other fields such as industry or somatic medicine, without changing or deteriorating the quality that in the end should be improved.
Differentiation is necessary between the use of the Psy-BaDo for individual quality assurance of the individual psychotherapist and for quality- and psychotherapy-research.
This paper points out new approaches to modifying the present concept of quality assurance for the purposes of analytic psychotherapy.
Cicatrical pemphigoid (CP) comprises a groupf of patients with a chronic subepidermal blistering disease which primarily involves mucous membranes; lesions characteristically heal with scarring.
Immunofluorescence investigations typically demonstrate deposits of tissue bound and circulating immunoreactants of the IgG and less frequently of the IgA class in a linear pattern along the basement membrane zone.
These autoantibodies are thought to play an important role in the blister formation of CP.
Most patients show binding to the bullous pemphigoid antigen 2 (BPag2), collagen type XVII, with a molecularweight of 180 kD.
A smaller group of patients with CP have autoantibodies to laminin 5.
Animal models confirm that autoantibodies binding to these two adhesion molecules (BPag2 and laminin 5) are important in blister formation.
There are other autoantigens described in CP; however, they are only found in small groups of CP patients and most of them are not further characterised.
The described molecules are part of the hemidesmosomal adhesion complex.
Impaired function of any component of this complex may lead to a separation of the epidermis from the dermis; better knowledge about the single molecules and the exact localisation of epitopes within these molecules may lead to further understanding of the clinical picture.
Study objective: The clinical effect of ketoprofen is based not only on the inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis.
Ketoprofen also acts through kynurenic acid as a central antagonist on the NMDA receptor.
Due to this central analgesic mechanism of ketoprofen, we expected an analgesic preemptive effect.
This study was carried out following the Breivik/Stubhaug preemptive effect study design.
Dystopies of the bony orbit are caused mainly by craniosynostosis, facial clefts and encephaloceles.
This article presents the results of the surgical correction of orbital hypertelorism in 24 patients.
Using this operation technique, the bony interorbital distance was decreased from an average of 47.6 mm to 22.8 mm.
However, the distance between the soft tissues was not reduced by the same amount as the distance between the bony orbits.
The intercanthal distance decreased from an average of 58.5 mm to 44.5 mm, whereby an additional refixation of the medial palpebral ligament resulted in a reduction of the intercanthal distance to 40.8 mm.
A strabismus divergens was seen preoperatively in 18 patients, postoperatively only in 8 patients.
Four of the latter had to undergo operative correction of the diplopia.
We conclude that the operative technique is not reserved only for complex cases of hypertelorism because it shows satisfactory functional and aesthetic results with a low complication rate.
Four years after extensive pneumonectomy on the left side with resection of the aortic wall and patch reconstruction for a T4 carcinoma, 2 years after adjuvant radiation and 10 months after drainage therapy of late intrathoracic empyema, destruction of the infected Dacron patch led to rupture of the aorta descendens.
Successful primary emergency reconstruction of the aorta descendens was followed by venetian blind plasty (Heller) and transposition of the omentum majus for omentoplasty of the aortal wall and reduction of the pneumonectomy cavity.
The rate of prosthetic infections is between 0.3 and 2.5% and must be taken into consideration even in cases of intrathoracic vascular reconstruction with alloplastic prostheses.
After lung resection it is necessary to cover up the prosthetic graft by using autogenous material to obtain prosthetic incorporation into the protective tissue.
In intrathoracic infectious complications, extra-anatomic bypass grafting or autogenous vascular graft implantation should be considered.
If there is no possibility of carrying out these procedures, first aggressive local debridement of the infected vascular wall and afterwards coverage with alloplastic prosthetics with omentum transposition and thoracoplasty are essential to minimize postoperative infection and obtain solid anchorage in the surrounding tissue.
The evaluation of melanocytic tumors represents one of the most intriguing and challenging aspects of the daily practice in dermatohistopathology.
For the diagnosis of malignant melanoma and melanocytic nevi, standardized and reproducible criteria are required.
In case of the diagnosis of melanoma, the histopathological report must include all important data relevant for the prognosis which may also influence the therapeutic procedure.
The following paper summarizes the recommendations of the study group on malignant melanoma formed by the Deutsche Dermatologische Gesellschaft.
Recent studies have shown that acute infections, especially of the respiratory tract, are an important risk factor for cerebral ischemia.
Additionally we know that chronic dental infections may be a risk for myocardial infarction and artherosclerosis.
However, the connection between stroke and dental infections has hardly been examined so far.
Therefore we performed a case-control study using a standardized questionaire and examination.
We investigated 66 patients consecutive to a acute cerebral ischemia/stroke and 60 age- and sex-matched nonstroke neurological patients as a control group.
Dental status was determined by a so called total dental index (TDI) which reflects primarily caries, periodontitis, periapical lesions, devital and missing teeth as well as by a panoramic index (PI).
Specifically, older patients with cerebrovascular ischemia tended to have a significantly worse dental status and had more severe periodontitis and periapical lesions than control subjects.
A predefined poor dental status was associated with cerebrovascular ischemia independent from other vascular risk factors and social status.
In conclusion, poor dental health, mainly resulting from chronic dental infections, may be associated with an increased risk for cerebrovascular ischemia.
The results must now be verified in larger studies.
As chronic dental infections are a common and also easily treatable factor, their identification as a risk factor for stroke would be quite important in the field of preventive medicine.
Adjuvant basic therapy plays a central role  in the therapeutic approach to atopic eczema in childhood.
It involves the regular use of emollients and oil baths according to the clinical picture.
Emollients containing urea may cause problems when used in younger children due to their stinging effect.
Glucocorticosteroids still form the mainstay  of anti-inflammatory therapy and are superior to other topical drugs with anti-inflammatory effects.
Antihistamines preferably of the sedative type can be used successfully  during periods of exacerbation.
Systemic use of antibiotics is essential in cases of impetiginized atopic eczema.
In cases of bacterial-triggered eczema, the topical use of antibiotics in cases of limited or of antiseptics in generalized disease may be helpful.
The present paper presents data obtained over a 12 year period, on the matrix synthesis and turnover in some 650 arthritic and 180 non-arthritic (N) human cartilages using a standardised in vitro method.
When the relative metabolic (synthetic/repair activity) of these human cartilages was compared, it was demonstrated that in osteoarthritis (OA) and rheumatoid arthritis (RA) cartilages synthetic activity was diminished by approximately 50% as compared with N cartilages.
However, the turnover rate of matrix was not significantly different between Non-arthritic and OA, but was very substantially increased in RA cartilages compatible with the activity of inflammatory cells and proteolytic enzymes released from pannus.
The action of 13 NSAIDs was compared in terms of their effect on cartilage GAG synthesis.
3 of these NSAIDs were also studied in terms of their effect on cartilage collagen synthesis.
Consideration of the results in this study and from published material, led to the suggestion that NSAIDs may be divided into 3 categories in respect of their in vitro action on the extracellular matrix of human arthritic cartilages:   1.
Those such as Aceclofenac, Tenidap and Tolmetin which can stimulate matrix synthesis 2.
Those such as Piroxicam, Tiaprofenic Acid and Aspirin which appear to be without significant effect on matrix synthesis and, 3.
Those like Naproxen, Ibuprofen, Indomethacin, Nimezulide which significantly inhibit matrix synthesis.
It is suggested that the stimulatory action of group 1 NSAID is due to inhibition of locally produced IL1 and consequent expression of growth factor activity.
Other NSAIDs may also inhibit IL1 synthesis or release, but probably do not have a beneficial effect on chondrocyte synthetic activity as they have toxic effects on cartilage metabolism.
These experiments led to the suggestion that NSAIDs such as Aceclofenac would be appropriate for long-term treatment of arthritic conditions provided that one is prepared to extrapolate between in vitro experiments on human cartilage and what may be happening in vivo.
The article begins with a general introduction to the problems of pre-operative anxiety and its impact on the post-operative course development.
Then the treatment of a patient who developed an anxiety-syndrome before a necessary heart operation is described.
The treatment lasted 6 hours and included psychotherapy by guided affective imagery.
One and a half years later a follow-up interview was carried out by a colleague of the original therapist.
The interview was based on the assumption that patients are able to give a competent statement about their previous treatment.
The results are discussed under the aspect of therapeutic factors of psychotherapy.
Physiologically, angiogenesis in adults is a controlled process which plays a role, for example, in wound healing.
Pathological angiogenesis is observed in tumor formation and represents a multifactorial process, in which specific angiogenic factors, as well as growth factors, extracellular matrix proteins and cell adhesion molecules are involved.
Tumor growth is characterized by an imbalance in favor of angiogenic over angiogenesis-inhibiting factors.
Some of the most frequently examined angiogenic factors are vascular endothelial growth factor, acidic/basic fibroblast growth factors and the platelet-derived endothelial cell growth factor.
The most important angiogenesis inhibitors are angiostatin and thrombospondin.
To date, the clinical relevance of tumor angiogenesis has been shown for several human tumors.
For most urological tumors, the grade of tumor vessel formation, measured as microvessel density, has been associated with metastases, tumor growth and clinical course.
The prognostic value of this feature of malignant growth seems to be higher than that of most of the classical and newer prognostic factors.
Systematic investigations of tumor angiogenesis are becoming increasingly relevant for diagnostic and therapeutic strategies and offer opportunities for the development of new specific therapeutic approaches in clinical oncology.
Introduction: CPR is an essential part of resuscitation.
German medical students must take part in at least two low-level basic life support courses, one for a driver's license and one for admission to medical school.
The knowledge and skill of German medical students in CPR performance were studied.
Psychoanalysis is regarded to be mainly disorderoriented.
Indeed, since its beginning, it was characterised by the two-sided orientation towards disorder and resources.
Contemporary concepts of the psychoanalytic encounter, especially actualgenetic conceptions of the analysis of transference, lay the ground for better integrating both aspects.
This development implies new approaches to the psychoanalytic process and technique, and especially to interpretation.
More than before, contemporary psychoanalytic interpretation refers to progressive coping strategies within and outside transferential processes.
During the last few decades, traumatic injuries of the hip joint have significantly increased in number, and traffic accidents have also increased.
Depending on the speed, direction of the forces and the position of the femur at the moment of impact, different patterns of injury occur.
Basically, they are classified as hip dislocations, dislocation fractures and acetabular fractures.
These injuries have in common a high rate of concomitant lesions.
Several classification systems have been developed for these injuries.
Commonly, Stewart and Milford's or Levin's classification is used for dislocations and dislocation fractures.
For acetabular fractures, Judet and Letournel's classification and its newer version developed by Helfet (AO classification) are generally accepted.
Fractures of the femoral head, though included in these classifications, are typically described by separate classifications like the one presented in 1957 by Pipkin.
The multitude of injuries occuring in the hip joint requires vast knowledge of various operative approaches.
No single approach exists that would permit the treatment of all injuries in an ideal fashion.
Approaches are either considered limited (Kocher-Langenbeck, ilioinguinal iliofemoral) when they permit access only to a restricted segment of the joint, or extended (extended iliofemoral, Maryland, Ruedi) when they allow all-around visualization of the hip joint.
The choice of the best approach for an individual patient depends on the type of injury and also on patient variables like age, preexisting disease, and concomitant injuries.
The decision is further influenced by the timing of surgery, the kind of fracture stabilization intended and by complications typically seen with certain approaches.
The indication for extended procedures is only seen in patients with complex injury patterns involving both the anterior and the posterior column or in delayed cases undergoing surgery more than 3 weeks after trauma.
Extended approaches permit excellent visualization of the fracture, but the extent of the soft tissue trauma is reflected in a high rate of postoperative complications.
After a phase in which extended procedures were favored, recently a trend towards more limited approaches can be recognized because of their lower complication rate.
This is facilitated by modern fracture-reduction methods using indirect techniques.
A relation between myocardial ischemia and induction of ventricular arrhythmias can be demonstrated in patients with coronary heart disease - in contrast to patients with primary non ischemic cardiac diseases - using a combined metabolic-electrophysiological investigation protocol consisting of programmed atrial and ventricular stimulation with simultaneous measurement of the arterio/coronary venous difference for lactate, pyruvate, free fatty acids and amino acids.
There are significant metabolic distinctions between both ischemic and non ischemic heart disease under pacing stress conditions as well as at rest.
A 52 year old female with Parry-Romberg syndrome presented with gradual atrophy of the subcutaneous fat and muscle on her chest and back.
The disease process was limited to the C3 to T2 dermatomes on the right side.
In addition, there was muscle atrophy of the right arm and extending down the back to T10, als well as right sided paralysis of the diaphragm.
Sympathetic nerve blockage reduced pain and hyperesthesia; no progression was seen over several months using NMR to monitor the patient.
The Parry-Romberg syndrome has been defined in many ways; in view of this unusual case, we review the literature, attempting to provide a more accurate case definition.
Between 1990 and 1996, 129 children (mean age 4.8 years) with hip pain were examined consecutively.
In group I (n = 100, mean age 4.14  +/-  2.2), transient synovitis of the hip was diagnosed; group II (n = 29, mean age 7.3  +/-  2.1) showed the following diagnoses: Perthes' disease (n = 12), early slipped capital femoral epiphysis (n = 5), Meyer's dysplasia (n = 2), septic arthritis of the hip (n = 2), osteomyelitis of the acetabulum (n = 1), abscess of the psoas (n = 1), chondromatosis of the hip joint (n = 1), Ewing's sarcoma of the os pubis (n = 1), hip dysplasia (n = 1).
Three patients who had synovitis developed Perthes' disease and were assigned to group II.
The efficiency of ultrasound, scintigraphy and MRI as diagnostic tools was tested in the examination of painful hip.
A capsular distension was present in 73 cases and showed a significant statistical difference (t-test, P < 0.001) in group I between affected and unaffected hips.
There were no differences in the measurements of the epiphyseal and metaphyseal width in group I between the affected and the non-affected side (t-test, P = 0.91, P = 0.57) and between the first sonographic evaluation at presentation and at the follow-up (t-test, P = 0.053, P = 0.75).
MRI was performed, because of persistent joint effusion, in 10 cases in group I, and Perthes' disease was excluded.
In group II the use of an MRI allowed the diagnosis in 89 % of the cases.
Sonographic examination, together with X-ray examination and serological testing, represent the first choices in the evaluation of a painful hip at presentation and in the follow-up of transient synovitis.
MRI should always be performed when abnormalities are present at the clinical and sonographic examination, and when the X-ray does not allow a clear diagnosis.
A 36-year old woman was presented to our hospital with congenital ventricular septal defect and one-vessel coronary artery disease (75% proximal left main coronary artery) for CABG and repair of the VSD.
After induction, a transesophageal echocardiographic (TEE) baseline examination was performed, showing a severely dilated coronary sinus (CS) measuring approximately 3 cm (abnormal >1 cm).
We suggested a persistent left superior vena cava (PLSVC) draining into the CS.
PLSVC is a common venous congenital anomaly, with a reported incidence of 0.5% in general population and in 3-5 % of patients with congenital heart defect.
Injection of echo-contrast solution in a left arm vein, visualizing microbubbles passing through the PLSVC into the CS confirmed our suspicion.
The diagnosis of a PLSVC and dilated CS is a contraindication for retrograde cardioplegia because of the loss of cardioplegia into the PLSVC resulting in a inadequate myocardial protection.
It may be difficult to pass a pulmonary artery catheter (PAC) through a left internal or left subclavian vein and it may be associated with arrythmias.
A chest radiograph shows the anomalous course of the PAC along the left heart.
Teleradiologysystems can differ considerably in their features.
The most important differences lie in the mode of image data acquisition, data transfer, data safety aspects and the possibilities of interaction between seperate teleradiology units.
A selection of commercially available teleradiologysystems is presented and compared.
Craniopharyngiomas are the third frequent pediatric brain tumors.
Complications after surgical treatment are common.
The most frequent complications are endocrine disturbances, vision field defects, deteriorated acuity, cognitive or psychological deficiency as well as significant weight gain.
A case of complete vision loss right after surgical removal of craniopharyngioma is reported.
Magnetic resonance image showed an edema of the chiasm.
No damage of anatomical structure could be detected.
Seventeen days after surgery the patient reported intermittent  visual impressions for the first time.
Over the following weeks his visus improved to  0.5, while the chiasm edema disappeared.
Electron beam computed tomography (EBCT) allows viszalization and quantification of calcium in the coronary arteries.
This has been demonstrated to correlate well with the overall plaque burden in the coronary arteries.
EBCT is, therefore, well suited for the detection of early stages of coronary atherosclerosis.
Especially in asymptomatic patients with several risk factors, staging coronary artery disease by coronary calcium, scanning may allow prognostic assessment and guide preventive and therapeutic interventions.
We report an unusual complication in a 53-year-old woman following ileostomy for Crohn's disease 22 years previously.
A stenosis of the distal colonic segment was the reason for the formation and subsequent rupture of a huge colonic mucocele.
To our knowledge, this is the first report of a ruptured mucocele of colonic origin after ileostomy.
The brain is an important target organ for gonadal hormones.
Estrogens have protective and trophic effects on neural systems and modulate the activity of several neurotransmitter systems.
Initial studies support the hypothesis that estrogen therapy in menopause may have protective effects toward the development of dementia, particularly Alzheimer's disease.
Furthermore, estrogens may improve verbal fluency, memory, and mood in elderly women.
Still, the available evidence is not sufficient to support general treatment recommendations with respect to estrogens and the therapeutic targets dementia and depression.
A 38-year-old male patient presented with circumscribed scleroderma (10x12 cm) in the left pectoral area.
Hyperaemia of the skin in the area of the lilac ring (morphoea) was quantified by means of Laser-Doppler flux (LDF).
At the lilac border of the morphoea LDF was increased to 420% of the reference value recorded for the unaffected skin of the contralateral side.
Immediately after 13 days of antibiotic therapy (3x10 Mega penicillin G per day, i.v.)
LDF normalized, though clinical changes were hardly apparent at this stage.
By 6 months later, LDF was still in the normal range, and clinical signs, such as induration and hyperaemic redness, had also significantly improved.
LDF measurements allow assessment of the therapeutic response to antibiotic therapy at a very early stage while the clinical situation is still unchanged.
It is generally accepted that the progression of an idiopathic scoliotic deformity with a Cobb angle of between 25  ° and 40  ° can be stopped by brace treatment alone provided that the generally acknowledged criteria for the treatment concerning skeletal growth of the individual are respected.
The total costs for a department of anaesthesia amount to a fraction of the total hospital budget that is proportional to the overall number of hospital departments; this means anaesthetic departments are in general not cost drivers.
The medical treatment of erectile dysfunction includes the systemic (oral, epidermal, intramuscular) as well as the local (intracavernosal, intraurethral) application of pharma cological agents.
Up to now only yohimbine, a well-known alpha-receptor blocking agent, and sildenafil, a newly introduced phosphodiesterase V inhibitor with predominant peripheral action, have been approved and listed in Germany.
Other oral agents under investigation are trazodone and apomorphine (central action) as well as phentolamine (peripheral action).
For the small group of patients with an established testosterone deficit, the epidermal or intramuscular substitution of testosterone seems to be a reasonable alternative to other therapeutic options.
For the local application of pharmacological agents, intracavernosal injection therapy and intraurethral application ("medicated urethral system for erection", MUSE) are available.
Currently, several promising pharmacological agents with different modes of action and routes of administration are under investigation.
The ultimate goal of these basic and clinical research efforts is to develop a specific and "tailored" therapy for each individual patient.
While the pharmacological therapy of erectile dysfunction will most likely continue to be the therapeutic standard for most patients, it will certainly be augmented by devices (i. e. vacuum erection devices, "functional electromyostimulation of the corpus cavernosum", FEMCC) and surgical treatment options (vascular and prosthetic surgery).
We treated a large superficial basal cell carcinoma (ca.
10x6 cm) on the right breast in a 48-year old woman with photodynamic terapy (PDT).
Fractionated PDT was performed by topical application of -aminolevulinic acid (-ALA, 20%) with subsequent red light (570-750 nm; 180 J/cm2) in three sessions.
Nearly total remission of the tumor resulted; however, a few residual neoplastic islands partly infiltrating the nipple-areola complex could be detected by photodynamic diagnosis (PDD).
These fluorescent areas were marked, excised, and the defect was closed by a rotation advancement flap.
Total excision of the tumor was verified histologically.
By combining PDT and surgery, this large tumor was treated with excellent cosmetic results.
This case demonstrates the efficiency of topical PDT with adjunctive plastic surgery controlled by PDD even in large tumors.
In a prospective trial patients were interviewed in two periods, from 1988 to 1990 and from 1993 to 1995.
Ninety out of 189 patients (47,6%) with a histologically confirmed diagnosis of malignant melanoma who noted morphological changes in a pigmented lesion reported the mole had been present at least 10 years.
20,7% stated it was present since birth.
156 out of 189 patients (82,5%) noticed changes in the lesion over the time.
Growth, discolouration and elevation were the most frequent changes but no significant early sign of disease was found.
Bleeding and crusting were found with tumor thickness >1,5 mm and thus be signs of an advanced stage.
Almost 6 months passed until half of the patients visited a physician, either because of changes in the mole or in the lesion was detected during other medical examinations.
In the second period of the survey from 1993 to 1995 the physician was frequently consulted earlier.
The main reasons for the delay between identification by the patient and seeking medical cedure were lack of symptoms and the notion that the lesion was harmless.
Only 72 out of 189 patients (38,1%) visited the physician on their own initiative.
The primary evaluation of the "pigmental lesion" was done by a primary care physician in 57%, by a dermatologist in 32% and by others in 11% of our cases.
A diagnosis of a non-melanoma was made and no further steps were initiated by 27% of the primary care physicians and 22,7% of the surgeons, gynecologists or internists.
Only 5% of the dermatologists misdiagnosed the lesions.
In the second trial period from 1993 to 1995 in all physician groups the rate of misdiagnosis increased due to changes in heathcare services in the context of privatisation in our health care system in East Germany.
Whereas 83,2% of the patients first evaluated by dermatologists had a surgical removal of the mole within the first 2 months after consultation, the proportion for those diagnosed by non-dermatologists was only 58,5%.
The rate of primary treatment by surgeons, often with a small safety margin, also increased.
In 45 patients with Parkinson's disease, we investigated coping behavior and its correlations to demographic and disease-related data, locus of control, depression, and psychosocial adaptation.
Active, problem oriented, and self-reorganizing strategies were predominantly used and regarded as especially helpful by the 27 men and 18 women (age: 56 years; duration of illness: 9 years).
While age and sex were not associated with coping, external locus of control correlated positively to "depressive coping" and duration of illness correlated negatively to "distraction and self-affirmation."
Coping strategies regarded as maladaptive and a small degree of internal locus of control correlated to unfavourable results for depression and satisfaction.
The Internet has become a powerful, international source for information, and it has shown an exponential growth because of the ease of access and the immediate availability of information.
We introduced a new ophthalmological atlas including ICD coding on the World Wide Web.
So far, more than 500 lantern slides of typical and interesting ophthalmological findings have been selected and digitized.
These pictures were integrated in a data base, which was arranged for ease and speed of search and retrieval.
In its background, the data base contains a list of over 4700 ICD-encoded diagnoses to which the picture-documented findings are linked.
Comments on pictures can be added by the author or by users.
The data base contains several lists, such as a list of ICD codes and diagnoses, a list of all pictures with corresponding diagnoses, a list of all diagnoses and number of picture, a list of those diagnoses for which the corresponding picture is available, as well as a list of comments on each picture.
Special program scripts handle the user's search key words for diagnoses and extract the required information out of the data base, using Windows NT.
Search results are presented on an automatically built-up webpage.
To provide fast speed of search all pictures initially are shown in a small format (thumbnails) with little amount of data.
The related full-size picture is retrieved by a single mouse click.
Moreover, the name and institution of the author, diagnostical hints and comments on pictures by the author or by users are offered for each diagnosis available.
The Giessen Ophthalmological Picture Atlas can be reached in the Internet.
It allows a fast search free of charge from all over the world and, therefore, offers an additional option to obtain specific ophthalmological information for various purposes.
Even though the function of the myometrium is vital for the existence of all mammals, there is little knowledge about its ultrastructure.
So far, only the contractile filaments actin and myosin have been identified.
There is no evidence for the existence of other filament systems, either my means of electron microscopy or histochemically.
The indications, operative procedure, postoperative complications and advantages of laparoscopic ileostomy and colostomy as compared with "open" enterostomy are described and demonstrated in our own patients with Crohn's disease.
Major indications for laparoscopic enterostomy in patients with Crohn's disease are stenosis, fecal incontinence and complex anal fistulas in those with severe Crohn's proctitis.
Most Crohn patients tolerate laparoscopic enterostomy and an increasing number demand this minimally invasive technique.
The period of convalescence is much shorter and complications in connection with laparotomy are minimized.
We report on a complete longitudinal rupture of the urethra in combination with a rupture of the pubic symphysis and pelvic fracture during spontaneous vaginal delivery.
Only after stabilisation of the pelvic fracture by external skeletal fixation adaptation of the urethra was possible.
Three weeks later after removing of the transurethral catheter a mild stress incontinence could be observed.
In the follow up one year later the patient was completely continent.
The cosmetic result was satisfactory.
An unclear haematuria after delivery needs a meticulous urological examination.
Early repair of urethral disruption minimize the risk of severe incontinence.
Coordinated care between the trauma surgeon and urologist is required for successful treatment of this rare combined injury after birth.
The increased consumption of "ecstasy" (MDMA, 3,4-methylenedioxy-methamphetamine) has also increased the number of life-threatening intoxications.
From a Medline search of the years 1992-1996, reports were registered and evaluated.
Besides cerebral, cardiorespiratory, renal, and hepatic symptoms, hyperthermia syndromes such as malignant hyperthermia, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, or the serotonin syndrome were common.
In addition to a discussion of the intoxication symptoms and their acute and intensive-care therapy, the psychological and physiological effects of "ecstasy" will be described.
Some historical considerations of the topic are included in this review.
The goal of this prospective, randomised and double-blind pilot-study was to investigate the analgesic potency and the side-effects of tramadol enantiomers in clinical practice.
One hundred patients recovering from orthopaedic surgery with a postoperative pain intensity of more than 50 on a visual analogue scale 0-100 mm (Table 1) were recruited for the study.
They were treated in a randomised, double-blind way with a maximal dose of 150 mg i.v.
(+)-, (-)-tramadol, racemate, or 15 mg i.v.
morphine or saline in the placebo group (5 groups, 20 patients each).
The primary criterium of efficacy was the number of responders defined as patients with a pain reduction of at least 20 on VAS after 40 min.
In case of pain, responders were allowed to continue with the double-blind drug up to six hours.
The non-responders were treated with morphine as the rescue analgesic.
The secondary criterium was the incidence and severity of side-effects.
Six patients terminated the study prematurely.
One patient was excluded because of an allergic reaction to morphine, one patient could not be treated sufficiently with morphine, four were excluded because of protocol violations.
There were 8 responders in the (+)-tramadol-, 6 in the (-)-tramadol- and 6 in the racemate group, 16* (P<0,05) in the morphine group, and 5 in the placebo group.
Pain intensity after 40 min was reduced by 20 (p<0,05), 17 (p<0,05), 17 (p<0,05), 36 (p<0,01 vs placebo, p<0,05 vs (+)-, (-)-tramadol, and racemate group) and 5 mm on the VAS in the (+)-, (-)-, (+/-)-tramadol-, morphine- and placebo-group, respectively.
Thirty eight adverse events like nausea, vomiting, PCO2-increase, and urinary retention occurred in 20 patients, most frequently in the (+)-tramadol- and morphine group.
Sedation was significantly less profound in the (-)-tramadol group 1-4 h postoperatively.
There were no side-effect in the tramadol racemate group.
The enantiomers were equal to the racemate in analgesic potency, but inferior by far to morphine.
They showed more adverse events and, hence, can not be preferred to the racemate in postoperative pain therapy.
A 36-year-old man known as chronic alcohol abuser presently suffered from arthralgia and showed bilateral petriefied kidneys by sonography and computed tomography.
Because of an unclear renal failure a kidney biopsy was performed and presented typical chronic renal oxalosis with massive oxalate crystal deposits, tubular atrophy and interstitital fibrosis.
Since the man had never shown signs of hyperoxaluria in his life before, a secondary oxalosis was supposed.
The subsequently prompted exploration established a three to four times abuse of rocket fuel with cola lemonade 12 years before during the patient's army time as a marine soldier.
Such fuels contain ethylene glycol (glysantin) as antifreeze commonly known to cause in toxic doses acute renal tubular necrosis with hyperoxaluria.
The presented case, however, suggests a rare sublethal ethylene glycol poisoning with initial renal tubular damage, oxalate crystal deposition and subsequent chronic interstitial oxalate nephritis with tubular atrophy, interstitial fibrosis and chronic renal failure.
Undergoing chronic hemodialysis, the patient died 5 months after the kidney biopsy diagnosis by acute heart failure.
At autopsy, progressed chronic renal oxalosis could be confirmed.
Decompensated oxalate cardiomyopathy with disseminated myocardial oxalate crystal deposits caused acute heart failure promoted by myocardial hypertrophy in renal hypertension.
Insulinomas are rare tumors and account for 90 % of all endocrine pancreatic tumors.
They typically present as a solitary tumor, but may occur in multiple sites (e.g.
multiple endocrine neoplasia type I) or as a malignant disease in 10 % of cases and rarely as nesidioblastosis or islet cell adenomatosis.
Neuroglucopenic symptoms lead to the diagnosis; inadequate high insulin and C-peptide secretion with hypoglycemia in the fasting test confirm the diagnosis.
Preoperative localization is not necessary prior to the first operation.
The standard operation is enucleation or, depending on size and location, resection.
The treatment of multiple tumors and islet cell hyperplasia with a high risk of recurrence is problematic.
Subtotal resection plus enucleation seems to be better than selective tumor resection.
In malignant insulinomas, mostly presenting with liver metastases, aggressive surgical therapy with hepatectomy and debulking, chemoembolization and systemic chemotherapy are the modalities of choice.
MR spectroscopy is the only method for non-invasive detection of various aspects of cardiac metabolism in humans.
While the 1H nucleus of water and fat molecules is the signal source for MR imaging, the MR spectroscopic technique allows for the study of a number of other nuclei, such as 13C, 19F, 23Na, 31P, 39K and 87Rb.
Clinical applications presently are confined to the 31P nucleus.
31P-MR spectroscopy allows the non-invasive study of cardiac high-energy phosphate metabolites ATP and phosphocreatine.
The phosphocreatine/ATP ratio is considered an index of the energetic state of the heart.
Possible clinical indications include heart failure, valve disease and coronary artery disease.
In heart failure, the phosphocreatine/ATP ratio is reduced and correlates with clinical severity, ejection fraction and prognosis.
In mitral and aortic valve disease, a reduced phosphocreatine/ATP ratio may indicate the optimum timing for valve replacement.
In coronary artery disease, a regional decrease of phosphocreatine during stress ("biochemical ergometry") may indicate local ischemia.
Furthermore, absolute quantification of high-energy phosphates may allow diagnosis of myocardial viability.
Major technical developments, leading to improved spatial and temporal resolution will be necessary to establish MR spectroscopy as a routine clinical tool.
A retrospective and partly prospective study was conducted to analyse both clinically and cephalometrically the craniofacial growth pattern of patients with isolated and syndrome-related premature craniosynostosis after standardized fronto-orbital and midface advancement.
The file data of 293 children with fronto-orbital advancement were evaluated over an average period of 4.4 years.
In addition, lateral teleradiographies of 117 patients from this group were cephalometrically analysed.
Moreover, late results of 36 children and  8 adults with midface-advancement with an average follow-up period of 4.5 years were assessed.
In contrast to linear craniectomy and so-called lateral canthal advancement, in only 8.2% of cases (24 out of 293 patients) were relapses requiring reoperation found in this study after fronto-orbital advancement.
The evaluations indicate that with simple forms of craniosynostosis such as trigonocephaly and plagiocephaly predominantly very good or good growth can be observed.
Cephalometric evaluation confirmed the limited potential of growth in the area of the anterior skull base and in the midface in the presence of syndrome-related faciocraniosynostoses.
In such cases the cephalometrically confirmed maxillary hypoplasia, which increases in severity in the following order of syndromes `Saethre-Chotzen-Crouzon-Apert-Pfeiffer', could be influenced only to a limited degree by fronto-orbital advancement.
For this reason midface advancement is of secondary importance in children with very severe anomalies.
In the present evaluation, a high rate of relapse of midfacial hypoplasia was to be found in children and adolescents after this operation in accordance with other references.
Therefore, the indication for Le Fort III osteotomy in the growth period should be limited.
The introduction of Perfluorochemicals into medicine and especially into the treatment of severe lung injury is a fascinating scientific task.
Many recall the famous experiments from Clark et al.
in 1966 when he demonstrated "liquidventilation with perfluorocarbons" in the mammal species for the first time.
After this hallmark, perfluorocarbons were subsequently introduced in research of acute lung injury by the techniques of Total- and Partial-Liquid-Ventilation (TLV; PLV).
Perfluorocarbons (saturated organofluorids) have unique chemical and physical properties which made them attractive substances for intraalveolar application.
The strong C-F bindings in the perfluorocarbon molecules are responsible for their chemical stability, biochemical inertness, high capacity to dissolve respiratory gases, low surface tension and high vapor pressures.
Furthermore, the high density of the PFC lead to radio-opacity and their distribution to dependent lung areas.
The efficacy of PFC liquid, applied by TLV/PLV has been demonstrated in numerous animal studies using different models of acute lung injury.
Currently, several mechanisms of action of perfluorocarbon fluids in acute lung injury are discussed: recruitment of atelectatic alveoli, prevention of endexpiratory collapse of alveoli ("liquid PEEP"), redistribution of perfusion, oxygen transport, surfactant like effects and decrease of inflammation.
Since total liquid ventilation has been used only in experimental models of lung injury, partial liquid ventilation has been introduced successfully into clinical trials (phase I-II).
However, the results of the first randomised, controlled study of PLV in 90 adult patients suffering from severe respiratory failure (ALI/ARDS) showed no differences between PLV and conventional treatment.
Furthermore, the instillation of relatively large amounts of liquid into the lungs poses several technical challenges and may be associated with complications such as liquithoraces, pneumothoraces and hypoxia.
Since mammal lungs are evolutionary specialised to gas exchange using atmospheric oxygen, the application of liquids, even if they transport respiratory gases very well is not physiologic.
To overcome these unwanted side effects, we developed a technique of perfluorocarbon vaporisation in analogy to the application of inhalation anaesthetic agents.
After resolving some technical issues, this application technique was used successfully in an animal model of acute lung injury.
Vaporisation of perfluorohexane in a concentration of 18 Vol.% of inspired gas improved significantly oxygenation and lung compliance.
Though these results are promising, mechanisms of action, dose-efficacy relation, surfactant-perfluorocarbon interaction or anti-inflammatory effects of vaporised perfluorohexane are still unclear.
These questions need to be clarified before this technique can be applied clinically.
However, the inhalation of vapor, a technique already familiar to anaesthesiologists should avoid risks of large amounts of fluids in the bronchoalveolar space.
Furthermore, this technique can be administered by established anaesthetic equipment with the advantage of exact dosing, continuous monitoring, and demand application in a way near to clinical routine.
VDD pacing using a single pass lead for complete heart block is well described in adults but there are few reports of its use in children.
We have used 6 different standard adult size single pass leads and 5 different pacemaker generators in 21 children and adolescents aged 3.7-17.2 years (mean 9.9 years) and weighing 13.5 to 76 kg (mean 34.3 kg).
Congenital complete heart block was present in 14 patients (with associated heart disease in 2 of them), surgical complete heart block in 6 patients and 2:1 AV block of uncertain cause in 1 patient.
In 10 patients, the VDD system was their first pacing system.
In 11 of the patients, 1-6 previous systems had been used and simultaneous extraction of ventricular leads (10) and/or atrial leads (5) was performed.
All leads were introduced via a subclavian vein puncture (using the extraction sheath when present) and the atrial dipole was placed low in the right atrium to provide slack for further growth while maintaining atrial sensing.
Ventricular thresholds ranged from 0.2 to 0.8 V. The minimal atrial amplitude was 0.7 to 4 mV and the maximum amplitude was 2.5 to 8 mV.
There was one early micro-displacement and the lead was repositioned.
Over a follow-up period of 2-64 months (mean 32 months), all but 1 of the patients have maintained low ventricular pacing thresholds and adequate atrial signals for reliable pacing at rest and with exercise.
During this time some have undergone considerable growth.
In 1 patient, atrial sensing was lost after cardiopulmonary bypass for additional cardiac surgery at 24 months and the pacemaker was programmed into VVIR mode.
One patient with coexisting congenital heart disease died suddenly at 3 years but the pacing system had no fault at autopsy.
The standard adult size single pass lead provides a simple means to enable reliable atrial synchronous ventricular pacing in growing children with complete heart block.
Open reduction with internal stabilization is considered to be the standard therapy for the treatment of displaced acetabular fractures.
The internal fixation is routinely achieved by the use of plates and screws.
The use of cerclage wires and cables as a reduction aid and definitive implant for stabilization has only occasionally been reported in the literature.
The indication was mostly limited to use in elderly patients with insufficient bone stock.
A newly instrument developed on the basis of a standard bone elevator is presented.
It allows a safe, semiclosed application of a cerclage wire around the greater ischiatic notch through use of the second window of the ilioinguinal approach.
A wide dissection at the "outside" of the pelvis is not necessary.
A 35 year old patient developed swellings in the red colored areas of his tattoo.
Histological examination revealed a lichenoid, pseudolymphomatous infiltrative pattern, that could be distinguished from frank lymphoma by means of electron microscopy, immunohistochemistry and molecular biology.
The presence of dermal dendritic cells suggests a dermal-allergic pathogenesis of non-granulomatous tattoo reactions.
Therapy of choice is an excision of the inflamed areas.
Interventional duct occlusion is increasingly performed with detachable coils.
In a series of 33 patients (34 procedures), we consistently used Gianturco-coils which were the initially employed coils.
They are not securable but can be implanted in a simple manner.
The rate of embolization was high (28 %) in the first 14 procedures; however, it declined to 5 % in the last 20 patients.
We modified the technique by partially blocking the duct, when necessary, with a catheter which was advanced from the pulmonary artery and by implanting up to three coils.
There was only one embolization and one small residual shunt in the last 20 patients.
The mean fluoroscopy time in these patients was 11.0  +/-  5.8 minutes and decreased to 7.0  +/-  3.2 minutes in the last 10 patients with successful closure.
Considering our experience, we continue to recommend the use of Gianturco-coils especially in the small duct which can be closed quickliy at low cost.
This review presents data supporting the involvement of the dopaminergic system in depressive illness.
Neuroanatomical research, animal research and clinical studies have shown that a dysfunction of the mesolimbic dopaminergic system could be associated with depressive symptoms.
Furthermore, the chronic administration of antidepressants in animals provokes a sensitisation and enhanced expression of dopaminergic receptors.
Although the dopaminergic system has received little attention in biological research on depression in the last decades, current research on the dopaminergic system is about to change this situation.
Athletes who need high endurance capacity often use training at moderately high altitude (1500-3000 m) to improve oxygen delivery and utilization because of a hypoxia-induced increase of the red blood cell volume and adaptations at the muscular level.
As maximal heart rates decrease at high altitude and plasma lactate levels for a given workload change during prolonged exposure to high altitude, it can be difficult to control and adapt the intensity and duration of the work-outs.
Furthermore, maximal performance capacity decreases and therefore training intensity at high altitude is usually reduced compared to training at sea level.
To avoid these disadvantages at high altitude a concept of living at moderately high altitude and training at lower elevations, termed "live high - train low" evolved, opposing the conventional concept of "live high - train high".
A third option using a hypobaric chamber ("live low - train low") is hardly used anymore for training athletes.
Studies on the effects of conventional high-altitude training for the improvement of athletic performance often lack a rigorous controlled design and yield controversial results.
Regarding the new concept of "live high - train low" there is only one controlled study on college athletes and it shows a minor advantage of this new approach compared to conventional high-altitude training.
However, training concepts are especially important for elite competitive athletes, and controlled studies with such individuals are very difficult to perform.
Therefore, it appears that today we cannot answer the question of whether altitude-specific physiologic factors or non-altitude-related benefits of training camps account for the success of individual athletes.
Purpose: To answer the following questions: whether reliable detection of lesions is possible in low-field-MRI-system (Magnetom Open 0.2 T) equipped with currently available hard- and software components in comparison to high field system (Magnetom Impact 1.0 T).
Furthermore, whether localization of lesions suspect in MR-mammography can be realized in MR system of low field (Magnetom Open 0.2 T).
Patients and Methods: In 11 patients, suspect lesions were diagnosed in diagnostic MR-mammography acquired with high field system (Magnetom Impact 1.0 T) and were compared to low field MR-mammographies of 0.2 T (Magnetom Open 0.2 T).
In six of the 11 patients a suspect lesion was localized using wire marking.
Results: All lesions considered suspect in diagnostic MR-mammography (Magnetom Impact 1.0 T) were also clearly identified in the 0.2 T system (Magnetom Open).
In six cases wire marking was performed without any complications and with an accuracy of K 0.5 cm distance to the lesion.
Conclusion: Although studies in the 0.2 T system clearly showed inferior SNR (34.6 vs. 83.1) and CNR (14.6 vs. 43.5) compared to studies with the high field system, all lesions considered suspect in diagnostic MR-mammography were reliably identified also in 0.2 T studies.
Due to its open construction permitting permanent access to the breast and due to sufficient image quality, the Magnetom Open is suitable for interventions on the breast.
Children with limb deficiencies or amputations of the lower extremities should be enabled to stand or to walk according to their state of development, because just standing and walking are among the most important preconditions for the best possible integration.
Supply them with a prosthesis, orthesis and orthoprosthesis is therefore indispensable for rehabilitation.
While a prosthesis replaces parts of the extremities, orthesis stabilizes the existing extremity.
Orthoprostheses compensate longitudinal malformations, have a supporting effect, allow growth to be controlled and compensate for shortening.
Just as important as the remedy is early medical treatment.
The sooner the treatment starts, the better the results.
As a result of the present experiences with the inhalative application of nitric oxide (NO) in term babies now the first promising reports about NO application in preterm babies have been published.
HIV remains infectious at room temperature for about six to twelve hours under sterile conditions, the time is shorter in the presence of bacteria and when clotting occurs.
HIV infectivity is easily destroyed by disinfectants.
The human infectious dose of HIV is around 100 to 1000 particles, dependent on the virus and the site of entry into the host.
After inoculation new HIV is produced after 24 hours, and HIV has spread over the whole organism by the end of one or two weeks.
HIV infection may be detected after four to twelve weeks by antibody assays, and after eleven days by nucleic acid based assays.
Anti-HIV production might be slowed down under initial therapy.
In addition to psychiatric outpatient treatment, the detoxification of alcoholics in psychiatric hospitals is an important link between medical detoxification and psychosocial inpatient treatment aiming at abstinence.
Integrated models of inpatient detoxification and motivation therapy focus on improvement of the motivation of patients towards further treatment of their alcoholism and towards abstinence.
In our study 529 alcoholics underwent such treatment lasting between 2 to 3 weeks.
A total of 469 patients (89%) were followed up after 8  months; 242 alcoholics (52% of the follow-up sample; 46% of the whole sample) achieved the treatment goal and started further treatment, mainly as inpatients.
Fifty-four of these patients relapsed before they started further alcoholism treatment, but achieved abstinence afterwards; 60 (25%) of these 242 patients relapsed after the specific alcoholism therapy; 227 alcoholics did not start further treatment after the initial detoxification and motivation therapy.
In this subpopulation, 113 (50%) relapsed during the follow-up period.
Although this is not a controlled study, it can be concluded that integrated inpatient detoxification and motivation therapy has positive effects on the treatment behavior of alcoholic patients and enhances the probability of further abstinence.
In this article we report a very rare case of simultaneous and bilateral rupture of the quadriceps tendon in a 38-year-old patient.
The initial diagnosis was "herniated vertebral disk".
Although there was an extensive neurological and psychiatric examination in combination with several operations, it took almost 3 months until the real reason was found.
In this case report we describe our postoperative treatment of early mobilization and compare it with other therapies.
Neuroendocrine tumors of the thymus, also known as thymic carcinoids, are rare tumors of the anterior mediastinum.
They occur sporadically or in association with the MEN I syndrome.
We present five patients (four male, one female; age of first manifestation 19-53 years) who were operated on at our hospital between 1984 and 1995 for neuroendocrine thymic tumors.
A hormone-producing tumor presented with Cushing's syndrome in two patients.
Two patients had MEN I syndrome.
Only in the female patient the primary tumor was confined to the thymus.
We found lymph node metastases in three patients and a distant metastasis in one.
The neuroendocrine tumors have a high rate of local recurrences and thus we performed 11 operations using a transthoracic or transsternal approach.
Since there was no operative mortality and adjuvant therapies are of limited value, we recommend surgery even in case of recurrence.
Korsakoff's psychosis (Wernicke-Korsakoff-Syndrome) following severe, long-term  alcoholism is considered to be widely resistent to treatment.
We report two cases with beneficial effects of treatment by a combination of clonidine and fluvoxamine.
The dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia was based on the neuroleptical blockade of central dopamine D2 receptors.
Brain imaging studies, however, generally failed to demonstrate a significant increase in central D2 receptors among schizophrenic patients.
Using a novel approach, the group of Laruelle and Abi-Dargham was now able to demonstrate that schizophrenic patients have increased synaptic dopamine concentrations in the striatum.
Endogenous dopamine competes with a radioligand for binding at dopamine D2 receptors; compared to healthy control subjects, blockade of dopamine production in neuroleptic-naive schizophrenic patients induced a significantly higher increase in D2 binding of the infused radioligand, indicating higher endogenous synaptic dopamine.
A similar increase in D2 binding was also observed in drug-free schizophrenics who had previously been treated with neuroleptics; these patients also showed an increased density of striatal D2 receptors, most likely due to counteradaptive upregulation of D2 receptors during neuroleptic medication.
The Columbia study provides an important indication of hyperdopaminergic function in schizophrenia.
Multiple and bilateral oncocytomas are rare.
There are only ten cases that have been previously described.
Three of these displayed multiple and bilateral oncocytomas and microoncocytomas, a so-called oncocytomatosis.
This report describes a case of renal oncocytomatosis found at autopsy.
In addition, we found an adrenal adenoma, a pheochromocytoma and thoracic cicatrices 4 years after curatively resected large cell carcinoma of the lung.
In the distal renal tubules we found oncocytic epithelial cells, with partial transition into microoncocytomas.
Immunhistochemically, these and the main oncocytomas were CD 10 negative.
These findings support the origin of oncocytoma from oncocytically transformed distal tubular epithelium.
CGH analysis of the different tumors revealed no common cytogenetic changes.
Coexistence of renal oncocytoma with other tumors is rare.
Hitherto, coexistence of a renal oncocytomatosis with multiple tumors has not been described.
Thyroid disorders in childhood needing surgery are rare.
Therapeutical procedures therefore are derived from adult surgery with modifications to meet the specific need of the pediatric patient.
The indications for operation are presented with regard to incidence and type of the defect, and the surgical procedures with regard to the extent of the lesion results.
Malignant bone tumors require the same careful staging as, for example, lung cancer.
However, well-established staging systems for non-osseous tumors are not suitable for bone tumors.
Therefore we present Enneking's staging system for malign bone tumors here, which is better adapted to the special problems of these entities because it integrates clinical, radiological and histological findings.
The weak points of Enneking's staging system (e.g.
inflexibility, changes in radiological modalities in the past 20 years) are discussed.
Efficient analgesia may be the major objective in the cardiovascular risk patient following myocardial infarction, acute occlusion of peripheral vessels, or dissection/perforation of major abdominal vessels.
It was the purpose of the study to investigate the haemodynamic and respiratory side effects of eight different opioids in 57 circulatory risk patients prior to major vascular surgery.
Patients were randomly allocated to eight groups, each receiving a different opioid within a clinical, equipotent dose range (buprenorphine, fentanyl, morphine, nalbuphine, pentazocine, pethidine, tramadol, alfentanil).
A complete haemodynamic and blood gas status was obtained prior to as well as 5, 10, 15, and 20 min following opioid administration.
Monitoring included a complete invasive haemodynamic and blood gas status.
Statistical evaluation was performed by 1- and 2-factorial ANOVA (P<0.05).
Significant time effects (changes from baseline at the time of measurement) were observed for heart rate and total peripheral resistance, while significant group (group-specific differences in the course of values at the different times of measurements) and time effects were noted for mean pulmonary artery pressure, pulmonary capillary wedge pressure, stroke volume index, and PaO2.
No major effects were observed following morphine, fentanyl, alfentanil, tramadol, and nalbuphine.
Buprenorphine caused distinct respiratory depression accompanied by an increase in pulmonary vascular tone.
Pentazocine and pethidine caused a significant increase in MPAP and peripheral vascular resistance while pethidine also produced marked respiratory depression.
For interpretation of the results, factors such as respiratory depression, histamine release, secretion of endogenous catecholamines, and hypoxia-induced pulmonary vasoconstriction have to be discussed.
Tramadol, an opioid with moderate potency, seems to offer some advantages due to its minor cardiovascular and respiratory side effects.
In this article we report a case of an early postoperative compartment syndrome of the anterior tibial compartment with complete sensomotoric palsy of the peroneal nerve after arthroscopic-assisted replacement of the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) of the knee.
The tourniquet pressure was 360 mm Hg and operation time was 1.75 h. After the operation the leg was bandaged to avoid swelling of the leg and as antithrombotic prophylaxis.
Analgesic therapy was by continuous epidural bupivacaine infusion.
Increasing pain of the lower leg was suppressed by additional analgesia.
Due to persistent pain despite regular analgesia, the patient was sent to a main hospital on the 3rd postoperative day, where an extremely painful and swollen anterior tibial compartment with intracompartimental pressure of over 100 mm Hg was found.
The compartment was released immediately.
Despite the appearance of severe muscle damage, no extensive débridement was done.
At the second examination, at 48 h, there was minimal perfusion of the muscles without contraction and islands of ischemic necrosis.
Clinically, there was complete palsy of the dorsiflexors of the foot.
The case shows the danger of a compartment syndrome when tourniquet of the limb, arthroscopy and a firm bandage are combined.
Continuous epidural analgesia masks the classic symptoms of compartment syndrome.
The influence of biomechanics in surgery of the locomotor apparatus has been constantly increasing over the last few decades.
The purpose of this study was to determine wether biomechanical studies can significantly influence therapy and treatment of shoulder injuries, especially shoulder instability.
The investigation was performed on 23 fresh human specimens with intact capsular ligaments of the glenohumeral joint.
A Bankart lesion from 3 o'clock to 6 o'clock was repaired, and a Bankart repair and anterior inferior capsular shift, as described by Neer, were performed.
The measurement was done on six clinically relevant positions of instability: superior, anterior, anterior-inferior, inferior, posterior-inferior, posterior.
Measurement was done using a specially developed strain-gauge system.
It was demonstrated that both instability and too much stability of the shoulder joint lead to a significant change in shoulder biomechanics.
The anatomical 0-position of the glenohumeral joint in 110  ° of abduction is a position of about 60  ° of external rotation compared to the 0-position for clinical measurement.
From the therapy point of view, one has to ask for anatomical reconstruction instead of tight repair in soft-tissue repair in the glenohumeral joint.
Immediate post-operative rehabilitation in a 60  ° range of motion is possible.
A total of 61 patients suffering from weight loss and epigastric pain were screened by color flow Duplex imaging (CFDJ) of the abdominal vessels.
Criteria for diagnosis were (1) peak flow in the celiac axis (CA) of more than 200 cm/s; (2) fixing of the CA stenosis during expiration and inspiration, and (3) steal phenomenon and reversal of flow in the superior mesenteric artery (SMA).
Results: Of 61 patients 21 (34.4%) fulfilled the criteria; 38 (62.3%) were excluded, and 2 patients could not be evaluated.
Of 21 patients 10 were operated on after confirming diagnosis by angiography of CA and SMA.
After a follow-up of 28 months 80% of the operated patients were free of symptoms, 10% improved, and 10% showed no change.
Conclusion: Successful operative treatment of CA compression includes (1) CFDJ of CA and SMA proving stenosis persisting in inspirational position of the diaphragm; (2) angiography of CA and SMA showing a steal phenomenon including blood flow reversal in SMA; (3) triad of symptoms: epigastric pain, postprandial pain and weight loss; and (4) exclusion of other causes, i.e.
pancreatic cancer, pancreatitis etc.
Extremely radical and radical surgical treatment of breast cancer was investigated with regard to indication, prognosis and local recurrence in comparison to current standard breast-conserving procedures.
Plastic-reconstructive techniques and innovative therapeutical approaches such as preoperative chemotherapy can extend the indications for breast-conserving therapy without loss of oncological safety.
Choosing individually various oncoplastic techniques such as glandular adaptation, local or distant flaps or mammoplasty permits breast remodeling with excellent cosmetic results.
We present the variety of intraglandular techniques and local flaps that enable the breast surgeon to achieve good symmetry and breast shape with minimal surgery and scarring.
Lesions detected in the white matter by T2-weighted MRI are often inadvertently attributed to multiple sclerosis (MS).
Patients with rheumatic diseases are commonly treated as an outpatient in their local environment or are referred to specialized centers.
Two recently founded daypatient clinics in Berlin and Frankfurt/Rhein-Main (Germany) for patients suffering from rheumatic diseases will be evaluated for their medical outcome and cost-effectivness of comprehensive treatment of RA patients in stages of high inflammatory activity and progressive disability.
The study design will be prospective, controlled, and randomized to compare outpatient and daypatient treatment.
The case-control study design with matched pairs within the network of collaborative arthritis centers will be used to compare daypatient and inpatient treatment.
The paper contains a review of studies published in English or German language dealing with daypatient treatment of RA patients.
A case of atrial ectopic tachycardia in an infant probably caused by a small tumor in the interatrial septum is presented.
The arrhythmia was successfully treated with amiodarone.
Several histologic abnormalities are known to cause AET, but an intracardiac tumor detectable by two-dimensional echocardiography is extremely rare.
AET - especially in childhood - as well as cardiac tumors show a tendency to regression, so that even in this case medical treatment should be the first therapeutic choice.
Interventional or surgical treatment is required just for those patients with AET that is resistant to medical treatment or reoccurs after finishing the medical treatment.
Tonsure trichotillomania is a subtype of trichotillomania in which the scalp exhibits a tonsural pattern of alopecia over the crown, extending to the frontal margin and sparing the lateral margins and the nape of the neck.
It differs from to the more common form of childhood trichotillomania in that predominantly female adolescents are affected and its incidence is related to quite severely pathologic psychodynamics, often with a disturbed relationship to female sexuality.
The treating physician should be more guarded in assessing the prognosis; hair plucking often continues for years.
Two patients with tonsure alopecia, associated in one case with trichotillomania of the pubic hair and in the other with enuresis, are presented.
The aim of the following study was to develop an osteoporotic model by means of ovariectomy.
Bone mineral density of the upper and lower jaw was measured by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DPX) before and after ovariectomy.
Histomorphometric measurements were done by a microtomography system.
Bone mineral density decreased significantly after ovariectomy in the upper and lower jaw.
There is evidence for the community effectiveness of preventive geriatric intervention programs prior to the need for help or long-term care from a couple of prospective randomized controlled trials (RCTs).
For geriatric rehabilitation programs tailored to older people with imminent or manifest need for long-term care analogous - evidence is still lacking.
The nation-wide leading boards of the FRG's Sickness Insurance Administration in conjunction with its Central Medical Service have formulated guidelines for the formation of a nation-wide ambulatory geriatric rehabilitation service to realize the postulate of the long-term care insurance legislation "rehabilitation prior to long-term care".
These guidelines must be proven empirically.
To prove the effectiveness and efficiency of the foreseen ambulatory geriatric rehabilitation service, the RCT design would be highly desirable.
Unfortunately, the prerequisites in the field of methodology are poor since valid, reproducible and feasible criteria for the selection of suitable patients and measurement criteria which meet the requirement of proven medium-term sensitivity to change do not yet exist.
Nevertheless, there is a great and urgent need, for the first time, to investigate the cost-effectiveness ratio for this ambulatory geriatric rehabilitation service to be established in the FRG, leaving aside the methodologic desiderata of randomized control-groups.
"Idiopathic" ventricular tachycardia is an exclusion diagnosis.
The underlying reasons and mechanisms of "idiopathic" ventricular tachycardias are still not completely understood.
Recent investigations showed a high prevalence of morphological abnormalities in the right ventricle of patients with "idiopathic" ventricular tachycardia out of the right ventricular outflow tract, which could often be correlated with the origin of the ventricular tachycardia.
These described abnormalities were not uniform.
Here we report about a patient suffering from drug-refractory "idiopathic" ventricular tachycardia for 10 years.
This is the first report in which the origin of an "idiopathic" ventricular tachycardia could be localized by right-ventricular angiography, magnetic resonance tomography and electrophysiological study in the area of an interventricular septal thickening of the right ventricular outflow tract and cured by radiofrequency catheter ablation.
Fetal teratomas are extra- or intracorporal congenital malformations with different localization.
Although they are rare, they may provoke severe obstetrical complications if they are not prenatally diagnosed.
If sonographic examination of fetal teratomas is performed, it is necessary to evaluate the further development of pregnancy for fetal outcome and pregnancy aspects in relationship to the localization, size and ultrasound criteria of the tumor.
Sonographic findings reveal the criteria and conditions for conservative or invasive management or reasons for continuing or terminating the pregnancy.
Prenatal ultrasound examination is the only possibility to reduce perinatal morbidity and mortality, as exemplified by 8 prenatally examined fetal teratomas.
We report on a 62-year-old female patient with melena in which polypoid lesions of the cecum were discovered endoscopically.
Histological examination of mucosal biopsies revealed an inflammatory process with lots of histiocytes and so-called Michaelis-Gutmann bodies, leading to the diagnosis of a malakoplakia of the colon.
No other organs were found affected.
In the course of an antibiotic therapy, there was no melena detectable over a period of six months.
Malakoplakia, an inflammation usually affecting the urogenital tract, is rarely found in the colon, with only 35 cases published until now.
It is frequently associated with other diseases like neoplastic or inflammatory disorders, immune defect syndromes or heroin abuse.
This spectrum is expanded by our report in which a long-standing alcohol abuse was found as an attendant disease.
Unilateral laterothoracic exanthem a (ULE) is a self-limited, probably infectious-allergic skin disease predominately affecting small children.
We describe five such cases.
The typical unilaterally located or at least unilaterally dominant exanthem usually starts in the axillary region and is characterized by red, partly confluent papules and fine scales.
Two of the children presented with atypical manifestations of ULE.
Due to its asymptomatic course, therapy is not necessary in the majority of cases.
Minimally invasive adrenalectomy is now an accepted alternative to conventional adrenalectomy.
As in open surgery, several different endoscopic approaches to the adrenal glands have been described.
In principle, one must distinguish between the laparoscopic and the retroperitoneoscopic access.
All adrenal tumors - pheochromocytomas included - except adrenal carcinomas can be removed endoscopically.
However, the use of these techniques is limited in patients with particularly large tumors.
The results reported to date are convincing.
Only limited data are available as yet to compare conventional and endoscopic adrenalectomy.
Because adrenal diseases requiring surgery are rare, endoscopic adrenalectomy is an operation that, for the present, will be limited to centers with a particular interest in laparoscopic and endocrine surgery.
Economic evaluations have become more and more important in the somatotherapeutic field.
This survey's objective was to examine if the current economic evaluation techniques can be applied to psychotherapy.
8 data banks, 17 key words from the psychotherapeutic field and 14 economic key words were used, the identified original studies were classified in accordance with Drummond, the methodical quality of each study was assessed at a score between 0 and 10 points.
21 studies were found: 16 cost- benefit analyses, 4 cost-effectiveness analyses and one cost-utility analysis.
The quality of the representation of the clinical results (mean value 8.6) was better than that of the economic results (mean value 6.1).
It was perfectly possible to evaluate psychotherapeutic interventions with regard to economic aspects by means of the current techniques but in most cases there was a considerable lack of quality in both representation and calculation.
Furthermore the evaluation type of cost-utility analysis, which is the only one that takes quality of life aspects into consideration and therewith seems to be the most appropriate approach regarding the psychotherapeutic field, has been greatly ignored.
As a net effect of ACE-inhibitors and AT1-receptor antagonists on the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) cardioprotection due to vasodilative (reduction of blood pressure, afterload reduction), antiproliferative (reduced cell growth, reduction of "vascular" andor "ventricular remodeling", reduced formation of extracellular matrix), as well as antiadrenergic actions and due to the stimulating effect on natriuresis, reduction of blood pressure, preload reduction can be expected.
These aims of therapy have mostly been confirmed for the action of ACE-inhibitors by experimental and clinical studies but except for the treatment of arterial hypertension and few preliminary reports concerning the treatment of cardiac dysfunction, no comparable data are available for AT1-receptor antagonists.
To date, an antithrombotic and profibrinolytic action could only be demonstrated for ACE-inhibitors.
This effect has been discussed to be responsible for the improvement of long-term prognosis in patients with coronary artery disease.
Despite the similar spectrum of action there exist important differences between ACE-inhibitors and AT1-receptor antagonists that might underline the need of an individual use of these drugs: the dual action of ACE-inhibitors on the RAS and the kinin system bears many benefits but has been also shown to be accompanied by side-effects, mainly chronic dry cough, in a relatively high percentage of patients thus leading to discontinuation of therapy in 8-14%.
This respective side-effect can be prevented by the use of AT1-receptor antagonists.
It has been discussed whether the incomplete action of ACE-inhibitors on AT1-receptor-mediated effects is at least in part responsible for the efficacy of this drug which is relatively high (75-80%) as compared to other substances.
Due to their direct action, AT1-receptor-blockers might also be of high effectiveness for the treatment of severe heart failure.
A combination of the ACE-inhibitor-mediated activation of the kinin-system with the more specific blockade of AT1-receptors by AT1-receptor antagonists might be of benefit and is currently under investigation.
Finally, it has been discussed that the incresed AT II concentration in case of AT1-receptor-blockade activates AT2-receptor-mediated mechanisms thus leading to an additive vasoprotective effect.
An isomorphic response is defined as a nonspecific skin stimulus eliciting a disease-specific skin reaction.
We report on the development of the Koebner phenomenon in a 32 year old patient with psoriasis after skin testing with UVB at a dose above 0,055 J/cm2.
In addition we describe a 28 years old patient who developed new psoriatic plaques in the areas affected by the virus after a varicella infection.
The presence of nicotine in sweat obtained from smokers and one non-smoker exposed to tobacco smoke after 4 h to 8 days of nicotine-free time was investigated.
Following stimulation of the eccrine glands, sweat samples were taken every hour for 6 h.The total nicotine concentrations, i.e.
the sum of nicotine and its metabolites, were determined by radioimmunoassay.
The presence of unchanged nicotine was revealed by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry.
Up to now there is no specific treatment targeting the ultimate cause of interstitial cystitis (IC), since its pathogenesis and etiology are still unknown.
Most studies focussing on oral medication have not been randomized, double-blinded or placebo-controlled.
Numerous case reports and intent-to-treat trials are lacking a systematic approach and do not meet evidence-based medicine criteria.
Consequently there is as yet no standard oral therapy available for the treatment of IC.
Differential radiomodification induced by 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) is proving to be a feasible modality for optimizing tumor radiotherapy.
Our earlier work on Ehrlich ascites tumor cells has shown that pretreatment with hematoporphyrin derivatives increases the uptake and phosphorylation of 2-DG.
Moreover, the alteration induced in bioenergetic profile was more drastic and less reversible.
The promising combination of hematoporphyrin derivatives and 2-DG has been further evaluated in the Ehrlich ascites tumor bearing mice for determining the effects on radiotherapeutic response.
Solid tumors (average volume = 0.9 +/- 0.1 cm3) implanted in Swiss-albino strain "A" mice were focally irradiated (10 Gy) using 60Co teletherapy.
Tumor bioenergetics was assessed by 31P MR spectroscopy.
The uptake and phosphorylation of 2-DG was observed to be increased following pretreatment with hematoporphyrin derivatives.
Upon hematoporphyrin derivatives + 2-DG treatment followed by irridiation, the intracellular pH reduced and a remarkable increase in glycerophosphorylcholine and inorganic phosphate levels was observed.
The present study demonstrates the potential of hematoporphyrin derivative pretreatment in increasing the bioavailability of 2-DG in a mice Ehrlich ascites tumor model.
The finding may have interesting clinical implications in the form of increased manifestation of the radiation-induced damage in the case of use of these drugs as a potential adjuvant in radiotherapy of tumors.
The novel Lenz (1835) by the German author, social revolutionist and physician Georg Büchner (1813-1837) can be regarded as a prominent document in the history of medicine.
On the one hand, Büchner's description of a schizophrenic disorder meets recent criteria; on the other, he hints at the physician's modern general attitude toward the patient.
The latter is derived from his philosophy of art and political motives.
The hypothesis is discussed that a dysfunction of the descending antinociceptive system may underly the pain of fibromyalgia.
Data from animal experimentation show that an interruption of the system by spinal cord cooling leads to (1) increase in ongoing activity,  (2) lowering in stimulation threshold, and (3) increase in response magnitude in nociceptive dorsal horn neurons.
The influence of the descending system was stronger on the responses to input from deep nociceptors than to input from cutaneous nociceptors.
If similar changes occur also in patients, an impairment of the tonicly active descending system should be followed by (1) spontaneous pain (ongoing activity), (2) tenderness (lowering in mechanical threshold), and (3) hyperalgesia (increased responses to noxious stimuli).
These changes should affect mainly deep pain, because the antinociceptive system influences predominantly input from deep nociceptors.
Animal experiments with microbiologic examinations and studies in cell cultures have shown that ionomer cement is a biocompatible and biostable bone replacement material in the head and neck region.
Clinical and functional results of its use in the human middle ear have proven to be satisfactory during a maximal period of 2.5 years observation.
The present trial was continued in order to determine the long-term behavior of ionomer cement (Ionos partial and total ossicles) after reconstruction of the ossicular chain.
The ossicular chain was reconstructed in 343 cases and included various losses of one or more of the ossicles (i.e., incus, incus and malleus, incus and stapes superstructure, and malleus, incus and stapes superstructure).
Follow-up extended over a maximum period of 5.5 years.
Patients were examined under a surgical microscope and a pure-tone audiogram was performed at regular intervals.
Preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) is not presently performed in Germany.
According to PGD's opponents there, existing laws for the protection of embryos forbid this type of diagnostics.
Proponents feel that these laws do not stand in the way of PGD, depending on legal viewpoint.
This controversy has hindered PGD's application in Germany.
The nature of this longstanding, emotional discussion is not easy to describe to scientists abroad.
This retrospective study investigated the stability of the small AO external fixator in a radioradial configuration used in the treatment of 42 mostly unstable distal radius fractures (types A-3.2, C-1.2 and C-2.1 according to the AO classification).
No bone grafting was performed.
All cases were documented with antero-posterior and lateral X-rays preoperatively, 0, 2 and 6 weeks postoperatively and after consolidation.
Early functional aftertreatment was started one week after surgery.
Thirty-six fractures showed a dorsal comminution, combined with osteopenia in 18 cases.
The mean preoperative radial angle of 17 ° was normalized to 25 ° postoperatively.
The mean preoperative volar angle of minus 30 ° was reduced to 12 ° postoperatively.
None of these mean angles changed until consolidation.
The external fixator was removed on average after 7 weeks (range 6-10 weeks) depending on the radiological fracture healing.
The small AO external fixator in a radioradial configuration proved to be stable enough for early functional aftertreatment of the wrist.
Its stability is related to a proper operative technique and correct indication (unstable Colles type with one or two distal fragments).
Bone grafting is unnecessary if the external fixator is left in situ until bony consolidation.
Purpose: To develop and implement a method to obtain digital subtraction (DS) spiral computed tomography angiograms (SCTA) in order to avoid superimposition of bony structures and vascular calcifications on SCTA maximum intensity projections (MIPs) and shaded surface display (SSD).
The concept of small-volume resuscitation, the rapid infusion of a small volume (4 ml/kg BW) of hyperosmolar 7.2-7.5% saline solution for the initial therapy of severe hypovolemia and shock was advocated more than a decade ago.
Numerous publications have established that hyperosmolar saline solution can restore arterial blood pressure, cardiac index and oxygen delivery as well as organ perfusion to pre-shock values.
Most prehospital studies failed to yield conclusive results with respect to a reduction in overall mortality.
A meta-analysis of preclinical studies from North and South America, however, has indicated an increase in survival rate by 5.1% following small-volume resuscitation when compared to standard of care.
Moreover, small-volume resuscitation appears to be of specific impact in patients suffering from head injuries with increased ICP and in severest trauma requiring immediate surgical intervention.
The utility of electron beam computed tomography (EBT) to estimate cerebral blood volume (CBV) and cerebral blood flow (CBF) was evaluated.
Eleven patients with suspected acute cerebral ischemia were investigated.
The EBT was performed with an acquisition time of 50 ms per slice at eight parallel levels.
To compare signal/noise and contrast/ noise ratios the data from the EBT investigation were compared to a similar examination on a spiral CT.
The signal/noise ratio with EBT was about 30%, the contrast/noise ratio 25% of that with spiral CT.
The absolute values of CBV were 4.9 +/- 1.2 ml/100 g (EBT); CBF was 50.5 +/- 7.0 ml/100 g/min in normal contralateral brain tissue.
In four patients with proven infarcts on follow-up, the ischemic areas had a CBV ranging from 1.7 to 3.8 ml/100 g, while CBF ranged from 9.4 to 24.5 ml/100 g/min.
Using a bolus injection of contrast material, calculation of absolute CBV and CBF is feasible using EBT.
Advantages of EBT are the absolute measurements possible and it's multislice capability.
Disadvantages, however, are caused by the high image noise, limiting the demarcation of ischemic tissue.
The report, in two parts, sums up the findings of a survey covering 52 cities in Central Europe.
Most administrations have imposed a ban on feeding street pigeons, but this has been more or less unsuccessful.
Information campaigns were used on a large scale, along with more controversial methods such as catching the birds or shooting them down, providing pigeon houses, administering hormone preparations, chemosterilization, and exclusion from buildings.
Few attempts were made to reduce the number of breeding places.
Population reduction by poisons or natural enemies seems to be negligible.
We report a rare case of an accident during which a pedestrian was hit by a car and was thrown through the windscreen into the front seat.
Apart from the high speed (100 km/h or more) the traumatic amputation of both lower legs and the resulting reduced angular momentum mainly contributed to the final position of the pedestrian in the vehicle.
In addition, the low height of the person standing in front of the vehicle is deemed to have been a supporting factor for the course of the accident.
A 41-year-old woman with severe juvenile diabetes mellitus suffered from profund hypothermia after loss of thermoregulation in diabetic ketoacidosis.
She was found unconscious, without measurable blood pressure; the electrocardiogram (ECG) showed bradycardia of 30/min and the rectal temperature was 23.7  °C.
The patient received mechanical ventilation, fluid therapy, warmed gastric lavage, and, unfortunately, inotropic medication.
She was transferred to a department of cardiac surgery in order to continue the therapy with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
On arrival, the patient had a rectal temperature of 27.3  °C, the ECG showed an absolute arrhythmia with a frequency of 70/min, and the blood pressure was 63/43 mm Hg.
We decided to use a rapidly available but not highly invasive venovenous hemofiltration technique for slowly rewarming the patient.
Vascular access was achieved by percutaneous femoral vein cannulation with a Shaldon catheter.
The hemofiltration system (Gambro AK-10, Gambro AB, Sweden) was instituted with a blood flow rate of 200 ml/min.
The hemofiltration monitor controls the pumps for filtering and substituting fluid volumes and allows the infusion solutions to be heated up to 40  °C.
Sinus rhythm resumed without antiarrhythmic medications at a temperature of 29.5  °C, and within 8 h the patient was rewarmed to 35.5  °C.
After treatment of the adult respiratory distress syndrome caused by pneumonia, she was discharged from the intensive care unit to complete treatment with no evidence of any permanent organ damage.
We conclude that hemofiltration may be the method of choice for rewarming deeply hypothermic patients when their circulation is preserved.
Under these circumstances, it is preferable to external rewarming techniques, as it avoids the disadvantages of temperature afterdrop and rewarming shock.
Rewarming rates of 1.5  °C/h seem to be adequate.
Hemofiltration systems are more widespread, less invasive, and easier to handle compared to CPB techniques, which should be preferred in situations of prolonged unsuccessful cardiopulmonary resuscitation with cardiac arrest and deep core temperatures.
We report an unusual injury of the face caused by the spoke of an automatic telescoping umbrella that come loose when the umbrella was opened.
Due to the shot-like force of the spoke, the left nostril, septum and right wall of the nasal cavity were pierced.
The part with the joint penetrated into the maxillary antrum.
In order to remove the spoke, wire scissors had to be used to cuff off the spoke's joint inside the surgically opened maxillary sinus.
Seven patients with pulmonary metastases of malignant melanoma were treated with inhalation therapy with 36 million IU interleukin-2 for six months.
Inhalation therapy was combined with four bolus infusions of DTIC at a dose of 850 mg/m2 once every four weeks.
Response rates were 71,4% with 2 patients achieving a complete remission (CR), 2 partial remissions (PR), 1 stable disease (SD), and 2 progressing disease (PD).
Therapy was well tolerated with low toxicity.
Six of the patients developed cough; one patient was slightly feverish.
We conclude that inhalation therapy of lung metastases is a promising addition to the therapeutic arsenal against malignant melanoma.
Twelve patients with extensive lichen planus, resistant to different regimes of prior external and internal therapy, were treated with PUVA-bath photochemotherapy (psoralen bath followed by UVA irradiation) using bath water containing 0,5 mg/L of 8-methoxypsoralen (8-MOP).
In 11 of the 12 patients, the skin lesions showed a significant improvement or even complete remission within six weeks of treatment.
In one patient, only limited clinical improvement could be achieved.
A mean of 19,1 (SD +/- 3,6) PUVA-bath treatments were carried out.
The mean cumulative UVA-dose given until clearance of the lichen planus was 16,7 (SD +/- 4,8) J/cm2.
No side effects were seen except an increased phototoxic reaction in two patients manifested as slight erythema.
The results of this trial show, that PUVA-bath photochemotherapy with 8-MOP is an effective therapeutic alternative to all other known therapies in the treatment of extensive, exanthematic and also hypertrophic-hyperkeratotic lichen planus.
In comparison to oral PUVA therapy and PUVA-bath therapy using 4,5',8-trimethoxypsoralen, balneophotochemotherapy with 8-MOP shows an excellent efficiency-side effect correlation.
The clearance of the refractive skin lesions by balneophotochemotherapy with 8-MOP demonstrates the superiority of this therapy over all other common therapeutic modalities used for lichen planus.
Critical illness polyneuropathy (CIP) may occur in up to 70% of septic patients and multiple organ failure patients.
Typical clinical signs of CIP are the difficulty to wean the patient from artificial respiration, a symmetrical flaccid quadriparesis/-plegia that is more pronounced in the distal parts of the limbs, reduced or absent deep tendon reflexes, and muscular atrophy.
This article describes and discusses the clinical and electrophysiological features and clinical outcomes, physiopathological concepts, therapeutic implications, and the complex differential diagnosis of CIP from a neurological point of view, focusing on disorders of the nervous system and myopathic abnormalities.
The data available in the literature were reviewed and compared to our own findings in order to deduce a clinical definition of CIP.
It is a particular aim of this work to emphasize the crucial importance of electrophysiological investigation and monitoring in the classification of the nature and extent of neuromuscular disturbances in critically ill patients.
Myths about development during midlife are examined in the light of recent research studies.
These studies show clearly, that midlife is a developmental phase of its own, the course of which can only slightly be predicted by previous development.
The assumption of a depressive crisis automatically occuring must be rejected as well as "positive myths" denying the evolving limitations in certain areas of life.
Developmental tasks and developmental possibilities are described as well as the clinical concept of a phase-specific "return of the repressed".
Possibilities of councelling and psychotherapy with couples during midlife are outlined.
The general aspects for the analysis of malalignment of the low tibial region in the three-dimensional space are discussed.
Recommendations for clinical and radiological diagnostics prior to low tibial osteotomies are given.
Closing wedge, opening wedge, dome-shaped, distraction, rotational and step-shaped osteotomies as well as combined procedures are described.
The possibilities of these techniques are pointed out for malalignment after lower leg, pilon and ankle fractures, as well as after trauma of the distal epiphysis of the tibia.
Arthroscopy of the ankle is an additional tool for detailed planning of the adequate surgical procedure.
The importance of determining an early correction cannot be underestimated.
The original reason for using the German "Habilitation" degree to mean that a candidade had qualified and could conduct research and teach at a university is no longer really valid, as this is being threatened by its importance to further careers.
Medical faculties must discuss how this development can be curtailed.
In order to check the current situation, the Habilitation degree systems of 36 medical faculties of German universities were compared with the aid of a scoring system.
Conformity existed only in the demand for a doctoral dissertation, scientific publications and a lecture on approval.
Concerning other criteria for qualification there was decreasing consensus in the following order: Habilitation thesis, commitment to teaching, further professional education, participation in congresses, inaugural lecture, qualification to teach, scientific activity, broad background in the discipline, and introduction to the faculty.
Application of the scoring system with a maximum of 33 score points resulted in a mean value of 15.2 points and a range from 6 to 29 points.
A significant decrease in the score values occurred with increasing age of the Habilitation degree (P = 0.002).
Even if scoring systems are ambiguous and unfair, our analysis revealed serious differences in the quality of the Habilitation degree.
Presuming that the German Habilitation degree should be maintained as a high-level qualification, we developed proposals that might be used to standardize this academic examination.
Chronic reduction in uteroplacental blood flow causes intrauterine growth retardation (IUGR).
In an animal model fetal umbilical perfusion in experimentally induced IUGR was examined.
Pregnant sheep were instrumented with externally adjustable occluders on the common internal iliac artery to regulate uterine blood flow in the last third of gestation.
Flow probes on the uterine arteries and the common umbilical artery provided blood flow measurements.
Uterine blood flow was restricted in the group destined to become growth retarded whereas uterine blood flow in the equally instrumented controls was allowed to rise normally.
When the experiment was terminated and morphometric data were obtained, uterine blood flow in controls was significantly higher than in restricted animals.
Body weight and ponderal index in fetuses of flow-restricted mothers was significantly lower than in controls.
Umbilical blood flow in IUGR animals was lower than in controls.
The relation between uterine and umbilical blood flow became closer with advancing gestational age.
Chronic reduction of uterine blood flow in late pregnant sheep causes IUGR accompanied by changes in umbilical blood flow which may be due to fetal adaptation.
Four hundred and eighty-eight radical retropubic prostatectomies (RRP) were performed on clinically localized prostate cancer at one institution within 5 years (1992-1996).
These were then analyzed regarding the migration of pathological tumor stages towards more localized stages.
Within the observation period, the annual rate of RRP increased by 81 % from 69 to 125 cases.
The authors noted a decline in the occurrence of advanced tumor stages (65.0 % to 39.2 %) and small cancers ( < 0.5 cc: 7.2 % to 1.6 %) and an increase in pathological T2 tumors (30.4 % to 55.2 %).
The rate of positive surgical margins declined from 34.7 % to 12.8 % (for all pathological stages).
These data confirm trends which were observed in the USA with increasing detection and treatment of localized prostate cancer.
Prognostic assessment of acute global cerebral anoxia following cardiorespiratory arrest requiresa high level of clinical and technical diagnostic skills.
Statements regarding prognosis of this form of coma can be made only with reference toa large number of clinical, neurophysiological, biochemical, and cerebral imaging data.
Previous research in this field has usually been restricted to only one or a few parameters such as clinical data, EEG findings, evoked potentials or biochemical markers.
The present compilation of the various aspects regarding diagnosis and prognosis is intended to define the present state of the art in diagnosis and prognosis of anoxic coma, and also serve as a basis for a multicenter prospective study including all of the relevant data to improve diagnosis and arrive at guidelines for effective prognostication of anoxic coma.
In 96 patients (ductal pancreatic carcinoma, n = 34; periampullary carcinoma, n = 43; chronic pancreatitis, n = 19) the role of CA 19-9 in the diagnosis of lesions of the head of the pancreas were evaluated.
The sensitivity for ductal pancreatic carcinoma was 73.3 %, for periampullary carcinoma 48.8 %, and specificity was 63.2 %.
Carcinoembryonic antigen was elevated only in every fifth patient.
Even when combining the two tumor markers no increase in sensitivity could be observed.
The low specificity of 63 %, which decreased to 33 % in the case of obstructive jaundice, does not allow adequate preoperative differentiation between cancer patients and those with chronic pancreatitis.
In cases of postoperatively elevated CA 19-9 level the prognosis is worse than in patients with normal tumor markers.
The management of neuromuscular foot deformities in children and adolescents must be individualized because of differences in etiology and pathomechanics.
If conservative treatment fails or reaches a plateau early soft tissue procedures are recommended.
Treatment should focus not only at correction of the deformity but also at reestablishment of muscular balance.
Early postoperative mobilisation is usually possible provided adequate orthotic control is maintained.
Regular clinical follow-ups help to minimize postoperative problems.
The general aim should be an optimization of functions and only rarely to achieve a normal foot.
The basic principles of management can be described as correction of deformity, stabilization of unstable joints and balance of muscle power.
This study was carried out from 1986 to 1996 to evaluate the technique of translaminal epidural endoscopic discectomy in lumbar hernias occupying over 50% of the radicular canal, foraminal hernias, and hernias invading it entirely.
This minimally invasive arthroscopic technique was applied in patients suffering from degenerative lumbar stenosis between L3 and S1.
The first part of the study dealt with lumbar hernias.
Of a total of 222 patients, 175 (78.82%) showed radicular canal invasion ranging between 50 and 90%.
The disc level was L4-L5 in 59%, L5-S1 in 39%, and L3-L4 in 4%.
Most of these hernias were lateral extrusions.
However, the study also included protrusions and foraminal hernias, since they were large and technically difficult to operate on.
In terms of distribution,  25 patients (14.28%) had protrusions and 120 (68.57%) extrusions, and in 30 patients (17.14%) hernias had migrated.
Surgery was carried out by the biportal posterior approach through the flaval ligament.
An irrigation pump was used and the structures were under permanent accurate arthroscopic visualization.
Good results were obtained in 96%, fair in 3%, and poor in 1%.
The second part of the study dealt with lateral stenosis.
Drawing from the experience gained by experiments performed in 1993 on five cadavers and by translaminar epidural endoscopy since 1986, this surgical technique was designed to provide decompression by resection of the ventral zone of the articular facet and, in some cases, foramenostomy.
Of the 19 patients treated, nine presented with pathology in one segment, nine in two segments, and one in three segments.
All had lumbar and sciatic complaints, intermittent neurological claudication and predominantly lateral sensory motor deficit.
The general results were good in 84% and fair in 16%.
The effects of "Care-insurance" on the situation of those in need of home care, is the object of first implementation-studies of SGB XI.
They largely agree on the high level of satisfaction found among those who draw the benefits of the insurance scheme, particularly among those who claim a cash premium; further they largely agree on the low level of influence of the "Care-insurance" on changes in the form of nursing.
An account of the results of the milieu-oriented "Freiburger Pflegestudie", which investigates the effects of "Care-insurance" differentiated according to the various types of care-situations, forms the centre of the article.
A possible intraoperative complication of laparoscopic cholecystectomy is opening of the gallbladder with subsequent loss of gallstones.
We report on a 61-year-old woman who was hospitalised with an obscure subhepatic tumor.
Intraoperatively an abscess was found that had been caused by lost gallstones following after laparoscopic cholecystectomy 3 years previously.
There is a low incidence of late abscesses caused by loss of gallstones, but because of the long latency and unspecific symptoms there may be problems in diagnosis.
Taking into consideration possible complications caused by intraoperative loss of gallstones, all concrements should be retrieved, even though there is no indication for changing to an open procedure.
Since squamous cell carinoma of the penis is rare, prospective trials do not exist.
Therefore, new treatment strategies have to be developed.
Based on our experience with the treatment of 22 patients with penile squamous cell carcinoma, we describe our therapeutic approaches.
Ten patients with superficial disease (T1-2N0M0) were treated with partial penectomy.
The 3-year survival rate amounted to 90 %.
In patients with extensive disease (T3-4 or N1-3) a partial or total penectomy was performed.
After initial antibiotic therapy for 4 weeks, patients underwent inguinal lymph-node dissection and if the nodes were positive, additional pelvic lymph-node dissection.
In patients with ulcerous inguinal lymph-node metastases surgical resection was performed, covering the wound with a musculocutaneous flap (tensor fascia lata flap n = 2; rectus abdominis flap n = 1).
The 3-year survival rate of patients with T1-2N1 tumours (n = 4) was 67 % and with T3-4N1-3 (n = 8) 25 %.
Patients with distant metastases received inductive systemic chemotherapy with cisplatin, methotrexate and bleomycin.
Objective responses occurred in 22 % (1 CR, 1 PR) of 9 patients.
These results suggest that immediate radical surgery with lymph-node dissection is the best treatment for squamous cell carcinoma of the penis.
Biomechanical investigations in eight specimen elbow joints to test articulated external fixation showed correct extension-flexion joint position between 0 and 120 °.
The central axis through the radial and ulnar condyles varies less than 3 ° in total.
X-ray kinematography showed correct articulation in all cases without subluxation.
In six patients with persistent subluxation and complex fracture of the proximal ulna external fixation with an additional articulation was placed.
All patients began with physiotherapy on the 3rd day after operation, the range of joint motion was 0-30-95 ° in all cases, after 6 weeks 0-30-110 °.
Additional articulated external fixation at the elbow joint can be an alternative treatment to long-term transfixation of the elbow in cases of complex injury.
How important and predicative are clinical parameters and locoregional failure after radical radiotherapy of oropharyngeal carcinomas for the probability of the occurrence of distant metastases?
From 1 August 1990 to 1 October 1998, 139 patients with carcinomas of the oropharynx were treated in a prospective study by radical radiotherapy and evaluated in regard to the clinical parameters reflex-otalgia, predominant structure of tumor growth, T-category, presence of involved lymph nodes, and smoking and drinking habits.
Twenty-nine patients received a concomitant chemotherapy.
Twenty-five out of 139 patients had a planned neck dissection after completion of radiotherapy.
Ten patients received a salvage operation.
The median follow-up time was 24 months (range, 4 to 74).
Two- and 5-year overall survival rates according to Kaplan Meier were 56.1 and 49.6%.
The tumors were controlled in 77/139 patients (55%).
The therapy failed in 62/139 patients (45%).
Both groups, 62 patients with locoregional therapy failure and 77 patients with locoregionally controlled tumors, were comparable in regard to performance status (Karnofsky index), age, gender, TNM-categories, histological differentiation, drinking habits, pretherapeutic diagnostics, total dose (Gy), and number of simultaneous chemotherapy cycles.
Locoregional tumor control was significantly determined by the parameters reflex-otalgia (p < 0.0078), predominant growth pattern (p < 0.012), T-category (p < 0.03), and smoking (p < 0.0285).
The median survival time of patients with locoregional failure is 17 months.
At this moment 81% of locoregionally controlled patients are still alive.
In 14/62 patients (23%) with locoregional failure, distant metastases were detectable against 4/77 (5%) of locally controlled patients, p < 0.0026.
Probability of local control and distant metastases, predominantly pulmonary, reached a plateau after 24 months.
Locoregional tumor control, determined by several clinical parameters, is an important parameter for the probability of the development of distant metastases.
Failure of local therapy is caused by the biologic aggressiveness of the tumor.
Telemedicine includes all medical activities in diagnosis, therapeutics, or social medicine undertaken by means of an electronic transfer medium, enabling the transmission of visual and acoustic information over long distances to doctors not personally present at the place of the requested consultation.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the retropatellar pressure, force, and contact area in cases of knee arthroplasty compared to knees without arthroplasty.
We examined six leg specimens before and after knee arthroplasty.
The modified Thiel fixation was used, and arthroplasty was the Genesis I without patellar implant (Fa.
Smith & Nephew, Schenefeld).
Contact measurements were performed with pressure-sensitive film (Fuji Prescale type "super low") in 45 °, 60 °, 90 °, and 120 ° knee flexion.
The results were evaluated with special software, "Pressure Imaging and Analyzing System FPD-901 Series".
The leg was exarticulated in the hip joint and the knee joint was opened from a suprapatellar approach.
The film was placed at a defined area between the facies patellaris of the femur and facies articularis of the patella.
Instantaneous pressure was measured during a time of 5-s pressure increase and a further 5 s. A force of 280 N was applied to the quadriceps muscle.
Before knee arthroplasty, the contact area measured 154.3 mm2, the average pressure was 1.14 MPa, the force 182.13 N. After knee arthroplasty, the contact area was 119.94 mm2, the average pressure 1.522 MPa, the force 180.98 N. Following knee arthroplasty the contact area decreased significantly (P=0.015), and the average (P=0.0001) and maximum pressure (P=0.0003) increased significantly.
The force did not change significantly (P=0.7642).
The choice of the knee arthroplasty implant and approach to the knee joint should be considered in order to achieve an increased retropatellar contact area thus preventing smaller contact areas than before knee arthroplasty.
The increased contact area could also prevent increasing retropatellar pressures after knee arthroplasty and further complications.
Maculopathy occurring in young patients is a challenge in differenzial diagnosis.
Besides hereditary macular dystrophies and acquired macular degenerations, rare systemic disorders should be considered.
Histological examination of 1660 biopsies (2 - 5 mm) of the synovial membrane of 317 patients were obtained by arthroscopic dissection; in 70% of all cases non-specific changes were revealed and in 30% specific changes.
The findings included different stages of proliferation of the superficial layer, uncharacteristic inflammatory reactions of the stratum synoviale and fibrosis of the stroma, vascular proliferation and pseudopolypoid thickening of the synovial membrane.
The histomorphological findings can only be interpreted reliably and a pathogenetic classification obtained, e.g., detritus synovialitis, rheumatoid arthritis or post-traumatic changes, if the arthroscopic findings conclude an exact documentation of the biopsy site and the clinical findings.
The aim of this study was to determine the impact of prolonged single lung ventilation and intrathoracic insufflation of CO2 during computer-enhanced totally endoscopic bypass grafting on biventricular myocardial function.
Methods: Transesophageal echocardiography was performed intraoperatively in 20 patients undergoing the above mentioned operation.
At distinct time points during the intervention, a cine-loop of both ventricles was registered employing a mid short axis view.
Simultaneously, oxygenation parameters as well as electrocardiographic data and intrathoracic CO2 pressure were taken.
Wall motion analysis was done postoperatively.
Results: With increasing duration of single lung ventilation, significant regional and global biventricular hypokinesia was detected.
This was accompanied by a decrease in PaO2 and a marked increase in intrathoracic CO2 pressure.
These alterations disappeared after weaning from extracorporeal circulation and reconstitution of double lung ventilation.
Conclusion: These results show that computer-enhanced coronary artery bypass grafting leads to significant alterations in intraoperative biventricular myocardial function.
This can be due to either an impact on oxygenation during single lung ventilation or due to intrathoracic CO2 insufflation.
However, in our group, these alteration showed only small clinical relevance.
During the last few years the fast development of different laser and laser-like systems for photoepilation and their one-sided representation in media has led to confusion among pysicians and patients.
The object of this review is to give a structured report of different pulsed laser and laser-like systems (Epilight, Photoderm, long-pulsed ruby-, alexandrite- and diodelaser) that are available in Germany, including their side effects and complications.The current status of scientific investigation in this field is discussed.
The purpose of the present study was to increase the free range of motion in conventional trust-plate prosthesis design and to optimize the trust-plate contact as well as the osteointegration area below the trust-plate.
Although familial occurrence of fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) has been commonly observed, data on a genetic role in this condition are limited.
A few studies have reported familial aggregation and association with HLA.
We have studied genetic linkage of FMS with HLA in multicase families, and found a rather weak linkage of FMS with HLA (P<0.029).
Malformations of the urinary tract are one of the most common types of anomalies in the neonatal period.
Approximately 15-20% of all prenatally detected malformations  require acute postnatal imaging.
Sonography is the primary imaging modality in the evaluation of nephro-urologic problems in infancy.
Hydronephrosis represents the most common pathology, followed by multicystic-dysplastic kidney.
Discussion: The result of the sonographic examination directs further imaging.
An adequate diagnostic algorithm is decisive  for accurate diagnosis, for the appropriate therapeutic regimen and for the prognosis  of the patients.
Calcification is one of the main causes of failure of porcine bioprosthetic heart valves, a problem which has not been satisfactorily solved to date.
Previous studies have shown that calcification is decreased in porcine heart valves that have undergone treatment for lipid extraction.
The relation between lipid distribution and calcification of seven new commercially available porcine bioprosthetic heart valves (St. Jude Medical, Bioimplant) is assessed by Sudan red III staining to show preexisting lipids.
All porcine bioprosthetic valves contained lipids to different degrees.
Five valves were subjected to the pulsatile accelerated calcification process for 4 weeks.
Distribution and level of calcification were evaluated by radiography and compared to the Sudan red-stained fatty areas.
Comparison of the calcifications detected by radiography and the macroscopically detected lipids showed a coincidence of 57-66%.
Two porcine bioprosthetic valves were histologically prepared and stained with Hematoxylin and von Kossa's stain, respectively.
By light microscopy, the von Kossa staining revealed microcalcifications and polarizing microscopic investigation showed birefractive substances in areas with lipid deposits.
These preexisting substances in porcine valve tissue may play a determinative role in the calcification of the tissue.
Substantial studies are necessary to further determine the role of preexisting lipids in calcification.
Therapy for hip dysplasia and DDH by means of sonography.
Numerous methods are available for treating "congenital" dysplasia of the hip (CDH).
The important point seems to be the differentiation between dysplastic hip joints with and without displaced femoral heads.
A historical review of the diagnosis of so-called "congenital dysplasia" and dislocation of the hip and different indications for therapeutic maneuvers is given.
Generally, a three-step plan of treatment is recommended: dislocated heads must be reduced, after which retention is needed until the hip joint is stable.
This is followed by maturation period, until the nonossified hyalin cartilagineous performed acetabular roof is ossified.
All hip joints, regardless of age, can be assigned to one of these phases.
In all cases, measures are taken to prevent ischemic necrosis of the femoral head.
To prevent the residual dysplasia of the acetabulum roof and femoral head necrosis, the reduction-retention position should be more than 90  ° flexion in the hip joint, but not more than 45-50  ° abduction.
In each therapeutic phase there is a different biomechanical situation in the hip joint.
The appropriate orthosis for treatment is chosen according to the particular biomechanical situation.
Each sonographic type can be set up according to the our classification in the three-phase treatment system.
In this way the adequate orthosis for treatment in each treatment-phase can be chosen.
A case of a patient with malignant acanthosis nigricans in association with carcinoma of the lung is reported, documenting successful palliative treatment of the warty papillomatous thickening of the lips with electrocautery.
Molecular atmospheric oxygen contains two unpaired electrons in the unreactive triplet state and thus has to be activated in order to react with other biological molecules in the singlet ground state.
These processes of activation include very reactive intermediates.
Therefore, aerobic cells must cope with - and to some extent also adapt to - oxidative stress provoked for example by infection or intoxication, where reactive intermediates of oxygen activation accumulate.
Depending on the strength of these impacts, several symptoms indicate the deviation from normal, steady-state metabolism.
Most of these visible or measurable symptoms are connected with oxygen activation where principally a transition from heterolytic reactions (two-electron transitions) to increased homolytic reactions (one-electron transitions) is observed.
Homolytic reactions produce free radicals, which are generally counteracted by a parallel increase of intrinsic radical scavenging processes or by compounds administered with food, thus warranting metabolic control within certain limits.
At advanced states of stress, control may be gradually lost and chaotic radical processes dominate.
Finally, cellular decompartmentalizations yield apoptotic, lytic and/or necrotic processes.
Every episode during this cascade is characterizable by the balance between pro- and antioxidative capacities.
Antioxidants, which in many cases are free radical scavengers or quenchers of activated states, comprise a wealth of classes of organic molecules including phenolics, probably as the most prominent ones.
In this article, mechanisms of oxygen activation and protection from oxidative damage are discussed.
Furthermore, examples of antioxidative functions of a few important natural products are reported.
In a monocenter prospective randomized double-blind clinical trial the efficacy of homeopathic treatment was investigated on children with adenoid vegetations justifying an operation.
Patients were treated with either homeopathic remedies such as Nux vomica D200, Okoubaka D3, Tuberculinum D200, Barium jodatum D4 and Barium jodatum D6 or with placebo.
The duration of the study for each patient was 3 months.
Examination of the ears using a microscope, rhinoscopy, stomatoscopy and pharyngoscopy, as well as tympanometry and audiometry were performed after 4, 8 and 12 weeks.
Out of a total of 97 children studied between the ages of 4 to 10 years 82 could be analyzed.
At the end of the study no operation was required in 70.7% of the placebo-treated children and in 78.1% of the children treated with homeopathic preparations.
These results show no statistical significance.
A treatment technique favorable for linacs with asymmetric jaws, which combined cranio-caudal matching fields with fields enclosing the whole target volume, is investigated with respect to field matching and sparing of normal tissue and organs at risk.
For a pelvic target volume rapidly varying in cranio-caudal direction a 5-field technique was planned with individually weighted and blocked fields.
Three fields adjoining in cranio-caudal direction were completed by 2 fields enclosing the whole target volume.
The matching line was measured and calculated with Helax TMS©.
Furthermore a 4-field box and opposing fields were planned.
The dose-volume histograms for target, bladder, intestine and soft tissue were exported.
Normal tissue complication probability and tumor control probability, respectively, were calculated for all techniques.
In the region of the matching line the summation of the measured normalized curves resulted in relative dose maxima of 6.0% (caudal) and 4.5% (cranial), respectively.
For fields enclosing the whole target volume the dose maxima in the region of the matching line decreased to 2.0% (caudal) and 1.8% (cranial), respectively.
For the dose profiles calculated with Helax TMS© no overdose was found.
The 5-field technique with adjoining fields results in a better sparing of the organs at risk compared to the other techniques, whereas the tumor control remains the same.
In specific cases a technique with cranio-caudal adjoining fields can be recommended with respect to sparing of normal tissue and organs at risk.
Disseminated Langerhans-cell-histiocytosis (LCH) is most frequent in children at the age of 1-3 years, seldomly seen in adults and extremely rare in the elderly.
The clinical course may be acute, subacute or chronic, progressive or stationary.
Spontaneous remissions are possible, but rare.
In elderly patients often the disease is at first limited to the skin before it becomes systemic.
Because of its central location, the elbow joint is considered the most important joint within the upper extremity from the viewpoint of function.
Trauma to osseous and ligamentous structures of the proximal forearm confronts trauma surgeons and orthopedic specialists with numerous diagnostic and therapeutic challenges.
Conditions following elbow trauma are often accompanied by chronic pain and diminished range of motion, leading to functional deficits of the entire arm.
There is now practically no doubt that primary osteosynthesis, anatomical joint reconstruction and early onset of functional treatment are essential for a good final outcome.
With our expanding knowledge of the anatomical and biomechanical condtions in the proximal lower arm in the last few decades the basic principles of therapy have also changed, and current standards of treatment for proximal forearm trauma are presented in this paper with reference to the relevant literature.
The series of five patients with symptomatic isolated right ventricular outflow tract ectopy and no structural heart disease which were successfully treated with radiofrequency ablation of the ectopic focus are reported in order to discuss radiofrequency ablation as an alternative treatment in patients with right ventricular outflow tract ectopy without ventricular tachycardia.
Basic principles for treating patients with chronic pain are presented.
They are the result of a longterm collaboration of collegues from different medical specialties in the pain outpatient unit of the University of Ulm.
In contrast to a variety of literature on chronic pain patients, these principles focus on the contribution of the therapists to the development of problems in treatment.
Eight principles, considered especially important for the treatment of chronic pain patients are presented and discussed.
We discuss this entity with the aid of a case report and the existing literature.
The therapy of these tumors includes resection and possible adjuvant radiotherapy.
Rhabdomyosarcomas are an exception, because they also show a good response to chemotherapy.
14 human femurs were scanned by CAT and 3D reconstructed.
In every specimen digital documentation of CCD and antetorsion (AT) angle was performed.
With a special software package (Orthodoc) virtual preoperative planning for implantation of a cementless total hip alloplasty was undertaken.
The specimens were randomised into two groups, one of which had manual and the other one robot implantation of the femoral component.
After implantation all specimens were evaluated again by CAT and CCT and AT angle were documented again.
The preoperative CCD angle was 126.7  ° (SD = 4.0) in the manual group and 127.8  ° (SD = 4.3) in the robodoc group.
Postoperatively the angle averaged 131.9  ° (SD = 0.8) in the manual group and 133.2  ° (SD = 1.9) in the robodoc group.
Significant differences were found for the AT angle in both groups.
The preoperative AT angle in the manual group was 31.3  ° (SD = 8.8), decreasing to 20.5  ° (SD = 9.5) after implantation.
In the robodoc group this angle was 30.9  ° (SD = 8.0) before and 31.3  ° (SD = 8.7) after implantation.
The difference between pre- and postoperative AT angle averaged 10.8  ° (SD = 6.4) in the manual group and only 0.4  ° (SD = 0.9) in the robodoc-group.
Conclusion: With the technique used, preoperative planning in hip alloarthroplasty is much more accurate than with the conventional technique with plain X-ray.
The virtual preoperative planning can be transferred to the intraoperative setting with high precision.
These factors may lead to an increase in outcome quality.
1000 drug-related fatalities that were examined in Hamburg from 1990-1996 by the Institute of Legal Medicine were analysed with respect to consumption of substitute drugs such as methadone.
The incidence of methadone-related fatalities has increased in the last two years.
The highest incidence was found in 1995 when methadone was detected in the blood of about 20% of all drug-related fatalities.
Lethal monointoxications or combined intoxications with a dominant role of methadone were experienced rarely (about 1% of all drug-related fatalities).
Of the persons who were enroled since 1990 in a methadone maintenance programme 2% have been registered as drug- related fatalities.
The mortality of street addicts without comparable medical help was about 10% in the same period.
There is further need for improved methods of registration, documentation and forensic/sociological analysis of all drug-related fatalities for reliable conclusions concerning mortality rates of drug users who are enroled in methadone maintenance programmes.
Pulmonary infections and tumors are a major cause of death in patients with AIDS.
The combination of clinical, radiological, laboratory, and pathohistological data helps to narrow the spectrum of differential diagnoses or even allows a specific diagnosis in many patients.
Nevertheless, an accurate diagnosis should be obtained as soon as possible during the clinical course of the illness to initiate treatment in time.
Computed tomography (CT) has proven to provide promising results in the diagnosis of AIDS-related thoracic diseases.
The aim of this paper was to demonstrate the diagnostic capacities of CT in the context of particular AIDS-related thoracic pathologies.
Additional information on the spectrum of pathological agents and on differential diagnostic signs is summarized.
This study was designed to provide information to which extend home-based nursing care services for the elderly take part in the care for older people with mental disorders.
Also of interest was the involvement of clinical facilities and services of the geropsychiatric treatment system in the health care for the clients.
A one day data collection in 29 nursing care services in two North Rhine-Westphalian regions could raise informations about 1,246 clients aged 60 years and over 1, 522 persons (41.8%) had a mental disorder, diagnosed by a nursing and/or medical professional.
68% of the mental disordered clients had dementia or a demential disorder, 6% a functional psychoses, and 31% a neurotic, psychogenic disorder or substance abuse (small number of clients with two and more diagnoses).
82% of clients with mental disorders had one or more additional somatic disease(s).
These diseases were mostly the cause for the involvement of home-based nursing care service.
Barely 8% of clients with mental disorders were placed from clinical facilities and services of the geropsychiatric treatment system into the nursing care services.
Beside the home-based care, only 12% of mental disordered received clients outpatient psychiatric treatment.
Systematic cooperation between the nursing care services and the system of (gero-) psychiatric treatemnt was a rare exception.
Acute cerebral nerve paresis can be caused in many different ways.
One of the more rare causes of paresis of one or more neural pathways is dissection of the internal carotid artery.
Early diagnosis is important, even with atypical symptoms, since prompt anticoagulative therapy can hinder stroke from embolism due to the dissection.
We report on two patients with Raeder's syndrome and Collet-Sicard syndrome resulting from dissection of the internal carotid artery.
Besides the cranial and caudal nerves involved in our study, loss of function has also been reported with the sixth to eighth cranial nerves, so that any painful, sudden cranial nerve deficiency can indicate possible carotid dissection.
In hematopoiesis, regulation and differentiation present a very complex functional network in which multiple factors of the microenvironment are involved.
In addition to direct cell-to-cell contacts and the modifying influences of the intercellular matrix, soluble mediators play an important role in intercellular communication.
Cytokines exert their effects by binding with specific receptors that transfer their signals to individual cells.
A common structure shared by subunits of these receptors leads to competitive inhibition in binding the cytokines with different affinity.
By this mechanism specificity is reduced, on the one hand; however, on the other the complexity of interactions in the bone marrow is enhanced.
A flood of in vitro and in vivo studies have established the impact of various cytokines on single hematopoietic cell lineages and their application for clinical use.
However, there is a lack of knowledge concerning the cellular origin of the cytokines.
According to the results of our studies elements of the erythro- and megakaryopoiesis are the source of cytokines like IL-1, IL-3, IL-6, and GM-CSF.
Wound healing represents a dynamic process of increasing scientific interest, especially with the detection of the different growth factors.
Economic aspects are also of importance in the investigation of substances used for wound healing.
In Germany 25% of all patients (ca.
1 million) with severe chronic venous insufficiency have crural ulcers.
The influence of bacterial infection of crural ulcers is controversial.
There is no doubt that the quantity of bacteria is of importance.
Local antibiotic treatment is difficult, as most of the substances used are known to inhibit wound healing.
In vivo and in vitro investigations showed, that chiniofon-containing antiseptic has a bacteriostatic function.
Additionally it was shown, using cultures of fibroblasts, that chiniofon-containing antiseptic does not inhibit the growth of fibroblasts, whereas PVP-iodine solution, a widely used antiseptic, clearly reduces the growth of fibroblasts.
The good clinical results in the treatment of acute and chronic radiation damage indicate that chiniofon-containing antiseptic may have antiflammatory activity.
This article presents the heuristics concerning description of individual generative behavior.
The aim is to describe the development of the desire for children, the generative action and the dealing with generative decisions for intended and unintended childless women and men as well as parents.
The main emphasis of the existing heuristics is placed on psychological questions.
These heuristics explain patterns and influencing factors of generative action as well as positive and negative influencing factors of the coping process.
It may be helpful to use heuristics which describe development of and coping with generative action as background information to ensure comprehensive consultation and therapy planning.
Morbus Parkinson is a progressive degenerative disease of the human central, peripheral, and enteric nervous systems.
In the course of the disease, not only the substantia nigra, but also extranigral components of the motor system, as well as numerous limbic system and autonomic centers undergo serious damage.
Accordingly, Parkinson's disease is a multisystem disorder.
Only specific types of projection neurons fall victim to it.
The first manifestation of the pathological process which causes the disease are abnormalities of the neuronal cytoskeleton.
Intracytoplasmic inclusions evolving in the form of Lewy bodies in perikarya and Lewy neurites in the neuronal processes result in premature cell death of the affected neurons.
On the basis of this selective neuronal vulnerability, a categorization emerges of the pathological changes within the nervous system and corresponding functional impairments.
Introduction: Children with "nursing bottle syndrome" and long standing teeth destructions and no treatment so far were examined for accompanying pathological changes in the bacterial flora of the mouth and alterations due to chronic inflammation of the oral mucosa and the alveolar jawbone.
Osteomyelitis is an infection of the bone marrow caused by both non-specific and specific agents.
Non-specific endogenic osteomyelitis represents the most frequent form, followed by the specific form caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection.
Typically, the non-specific form occurs in children and young adults, and the sites most frequently affected are the distal and the proximal ends of the tibia and femur.
In tuberculosis, osteomyelitis is predominantly located in the vertebral bodies.
In rare cases osteomyelitis can be caused by viruses, fungi or echinococcus.
It may also occur as so-called acute endogenic osteomyelitis, such as plasmocellular osteomyelitis and Brodie's abscess.
Histologically, dense infiltration of leucocytes, granulation tissue and bone sequesters can be seen.
In tuberculosis granulomas with central necrosis, epithelioid cells and giant cells of Langhans type are characteristically found.
Most forms of acute osteomyelitis can be successfully treated with antibiotics, leading to complete healing without complications.
Only a few reported cases develop into a secondary, chronic form.
Precision of osteodensitometric measurements using dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA) depends on various known factors, such as positioning, aortic calcification or vertebral fractures.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of various diseases or bone density on the reproducibility of measurements in the lumbar spine and the proximal femur.
Measurements in the LWS p.a., LWS lat.
and at Ward's triangle were made in a total of 100 patients.
The subjects were repositioned between measurements.
In order to be able to determine the influence of various diseases, four groups of 25 patients each were formed: three with the diagnosis osteoarthrosis, osteoporosis and rheumatoid arthritis and one control group.
The mean percentual difference and coefficient of variation were calculated as the measure for reproducibility.
Mean percentual differences of 0.18 to 2.6% were found in the four groups at the three measurements sites.
After calculation of coefficient of variation, a value between 1.2 and 2.7% was found for LWS p.a., between 7.1 and 15.7% for LWS lat.
and between 4.1 and 9.9% at Ward's triangle.
It was also conspicuous that the difference in coefficient of variation in osteoporosis patients was nearly double that in the control group in all measured areas.
Conclusion: Lateral lumbar spinal measurements using DEXA cannot presently be recommended.
measurements and, with limitations, measurements at Ward's triangle have good precision and could be used for course documentation of bone density.
Background: We compared the endothelial protective function of two hyaluronic acid viscoelastics (Healon GV, Provisc) of different molecular weight and viscosity during phakoemulsification in high-risk eyes.
Diseases of the peripheral nervous system occur in up to 50% of persons infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
In early stages of the infection, Guillain-Barré syndrome or a spontaneously remitting mononeuropathy can occur.
The most frequent occurrence is distal symmetrical polyneuropathy associated with HIV, which can only be treated symptomatically.
The most important differential diagnosis is a drug-induced polyneuropathy under antiretroviral therapy with the nucleoside analogues DDI, DDC, or D4T.
Chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy is less common and can be treated with immunoglobulins or corticosteroids.
Very rare are steroid-responsive neuropathies with necrotizing vasculitis or in diffuse infiltrative lymphocytosis syndrome (DILS).
In the AIDS stage, polyradiculitis can occur due to opportunistic infections - most often with cytomegalovirus (CMV) or M. tuberculosis - or polyradiculopathies due to lymphomatous meningiosis.
Mononeuritis multiplex is rarely seen in disseminated CMV infection.
Myopathies can occur in all stages of HIV infection; their frequency is about 1%.
Primary polymyositis associated with HIV, which can be treated with corticosteroids or immunoglobulin, must be distinguished from myopathy induced by azidothymidine.
Other forms of myopathy are very rare.
54 patients, who had been explored at the end of their treatment including a psychosomatic approach in a medical department of a general hospital, were interviewed again in their homes three months later.
Contentment with treatment was high in the inpatient and outpatient setting, the ill felt only moderately stressed by their illnesses, showed an adaptive constellation of coping styles and were surprisingly well adapted.
The comparison between the two measures showed a less favourable view of the patients three months after discharge from hospital at a quarter of the tested parameters, the variability was high in the scales, that were used.
Explanations for these results are discussed.
At a long term perspective coping with illness may be improved especially by interventions of the family doctors.
Health care costs have risen considerably since 1970 in all industrialized countries.
This has several causes: changes in demographic structure, the large number of physicians, increased personnel needs resulting from generous vacation and special leave privileges, wage increases and - last but not least - medical progress.
Advances in medical technology are often regarded as one of the main reasons for spiralling costs in health care.
Careful analyses reveal, however, that the high costs of imaging services are due to conventional radiography rather than to high-technology (CT, MR) imaging.
The legitimate demands for cost reduction have to be met with improved cost efficiency while optimal quality standards must also be maintained.
Relevant suggestions, such as generally accepted examination strategies, should be realized with the help of the scientific societies.
Background: Main features of the Coffin-Siris syndrome are mental retardation and absent or hypoplastic nails of the fifth fingers and toes.
Further symptoms are wide mouth with prominent lips, sparse scalp hair, and hypertrichosis.
We report on two premature infants who had completed 25 and 29 weeks of gestation and who developed unilateral interstitial pulmonary emphysema.
In both cases massive mediastinal displacement developed with compression and total atelectasis of the contralateral lung.
By selective intubation of the respective main bronchus, complete ventilation of the collapsed lungs and sufficient gas exchange was achieved.
After 3 days (case 1) and after 6 days) case 2), the unilateral emphysema receded and, subsequently, bilateral respiration was possible without relapse.
6 and respectively 11 days after selective intubation, extubation was performed.
The two children were discharged at the age of 41/2 and 21/2 months showing complete respiratory compensation and equal ventilation on both sides.
Patient with extensive keratosis palmoplantaris maculosa seu papulosa (Davies-Colley) presented with multiple cutaneous horns.
The clinical picture, the histology, the electro microscopic examination, the negative tumor screening and the viral classification in the tissue allowed the differentiation from other palmoplantar keratoses.
The patient was treated successfully using a combination of acitretin with physical and chemical measures.
Epidemiologic studies have shown that trace concentrations of inhalation anaesthetics polluting the air of operating theatres could have deleterious effects on the personnel's health.
Nitrous oxide (N2O) oxidises vitamin B12 and thus decreases DNA production by inactivation of methionine synthase.
Therefore, the United States and most European health authorities recommend threshold values to protect against potential health risks.
These values range from 25 to 100 ppm, expressed as time-weighted averages (TWA).
There is a lack of data concerning measurements of trace concentrations under defined conditions.
The aim of this study was to quantify levels of N2O in a recovery room (RR) with an air conditioning system.
The blood loss during the acute period after complex pelvic trauma is finally responsible for the high mortality associated with this specific type of injury.
Several protocols have been published for optimized management, but up to now comparable data are not available as no exact definitions exist judging the severty of trauma and blood loss.
As part of a prospective study 19 patients after unstable pelvic injuries with unstable circulation underwent emergency stabilization by the pelvic C-clamp.
Beside standard clinical parameter the initial hemoglobin value was converted into a "bloodvolume equivalent".
18 of the 19 patients had an injury severety according to group III and IV of the Hannover Polytrauma Score (PTS).
Concommitant abdominal injuries were seen in 12 cases (23 injuries), concommitant urological injuries in 12 cases (14 injuries).
In 13 cases the pelvis was the major source of bleeding in 9 cases an additional intraabdominal hemorrhage was observed.
11 patients died due to sequelae of their injury, 8 patients survived.
Although the initial blood loss was comparable both in the group of the deceased patients and the survivors, a 44% higher subsequent blood substitution (= 10 089 ml) was observed in the nonsurvivor group.
In conclusion the data proofed that early control of hemorrhage is fundamental for the prognoses after complex pelvic trauma.
The estimation of the blood loss may help in indicating agressive emergency procedures like emergency stabilisation, pelvic clamps, surgical exploration and tamponade.
This calculation may be a basis for a more detailed analyses of this devastating injury and judging the benefit of different management protocols.
In contrast to childhood intussusception, the clinical signs of intussusception in adults are nonspecific.
Generally organic alterations of the small bowel cause intussusception in adults.
In this case report on a retrograde jejunojejunal intussusception in a 61-year-old male, following removal of an intraoperatively placed intestinal tube for ileus therapy, the clinical symptoms, diagnostic methods and therapy for intussusception are described.
Sonography is not only the diagnostic tool of choice in childs, but also led to the correct diagnosis in this case.
In contrast to childhood intussusception, operative treatment is preferred in adults.
The term "frontal lobe syndrome" comprises a variety of different clinical syndromes produced by focal lesions involving the prefrontal cortex.
However, similar syndromes can be observed after lesions involving subcortical structures connected with the prefrontal cortex in neuronal networks.
With respect to the different clinical pictures and underlying brain lesions, prefrontal lobe dysfunction may be divided into a disorganized type, caused by lesion of the dorsolateral prefrontal lobe and its connections, a disinhibited type that can be observed following lesions of the orbitofrontal cortex, and an apathetic type following lesions affecting the functional balance between the cingulum and the supplementary motor area.
As intracerebral lesions are rarely limited to the brain regions described, in the majority of patients various degrees of behavioural dysfunction can be observed.
The case reports of four patients illustrating the three major prefrontal syndroms following severe head injury (n=2) or cerebrovascular disease (n=2) are presented and diagnostic implications as well as possible treatment strategies are discussed.
The measures taken in intensive care medicine are rated differently by the patients, their family, and personnel.
A lack of understanding for intensive care therapy can lead to a negative attitude towards intensive care medicine, which in turn makes an impression on public opinion, and disturbs the reputation of the co-workers in intensive care medicine.
To form an objective view, we carried out a survey of 40 co-workers (11 physicians, 23 from the nursing staff, and 6 ancillary personnel) regarding the medical technology, the environment in the unit, general medical questions, and the extent of intensive care therapy.
The length of employment in the intensive care unit ranged from 1-240 months (median 18 months), the ages ranged from 21 to 53 years (median 30 years).
Of those questioned 73%  found intensive care medicine in its current form to be purposeful: 100% of the physicians and only 57% of the nursing staff were of this opinion.
Only 9% of the physicians believed the equipment to be fear-inducing for the patients; in contrast, 61% of the nursing staff believed this to be true.
The noise level was rated as very disturbing by 65% of the nursing staff and 45% of the physicians.
Only 22% of the nursing staff believed that the patients felt comfortable and protected on the intensive care unit; 48% felt that they were unhappy or even miserable.
Of the physicians 46% believed that the patients were comfortable.
Of the nursing staff 100% were of the opinion that for the deceased patients, organ substitution therapy had continued too long.
On the other hand, only 45% of the residents shared this opinion.
The medical staff rated the intensive care measures as purposeful, less disturbing for the patients and more effective than did the nursing staff.
In many cases, the nursing staff as a group exhibited a contrary and negative opinion.
This could possibly be caused by insecurity, lack of information and lack of successful experiences.
Next to patient outcome, the competent explanation and information regarding the disease and prognosis and the recurrent communication within the intensive care team, with respect to diagnostic and therapeutic measures are the deciding factors in the opinion formation regarding intensive care medicine.
In this pilot study 12 patients with moderate to severe atopic eczema were treated with 2 million IU interferon alpha 2a (Roferon A) three times weekly for 8 weeks and followed up for a further 10 weeks: 2 patients showed clear and 9 a slight to moderate reduction of their skin lesions; 1 patient got worse.
Pruritus did not decrease and even increased in a few patients, and IgE levels showed no change during and after treatment.
All patients noted mild, transient, flu-like symptoms.
The efficacy of interferon alpha in the present therapeutic design for the treatment of atopic eczema must thus be classified as only moderate.
Shock secondary to sepsis is a serious common disease with a substantial mortality.
Coagulation abnormalities, ranging from a rapid fulminant state of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) to a slight elevation in the level of fibrin(ogen) degradation products, are well recognized in patients with bacterial septicemia.
Therefore, the inhibition of the activated coagulation is one of the first therapeutic steps.
We investigated 30 intensive care patients with septic disease and comparable signs of abnomalities in coagulation at the beginning.
Fifteen patients were treated with 1.5-5 E/kg body weight (Low dose group), the others received 8-15 E/kg (high dose group).
Our study demonstrated a significant stronger and faster decline of coagulation parameters - such as d-dimer, TAT and PTF 1 + 2 - in the High dose group without any bleeding disorder.
Thus, we support in cases of coagulation disease except fulminant ones the high dose therapy with LMWH as shown above.
Background: Laparoscopic techniques are currently used for curative resection of colorectal cancer although long-term results from controlled clinical trials are not available yet that prove laparoscopic procedures are adequate.
Methods: All patients who underwent a curative resection of a colorectal tumor from 1995 to 1997 were included in a prospective cohort study to evaluate the short- and long-term results.
Results: Laparoscopic colorectal resections were accomplished in 68 patients.
In only 3 patients was an adenoma (stage 0) found, and 10 patients had multiple liver metastases at the time of palliative resection.
An oncological resection was performed in 55 patients.
The average age was 62.8  +/-  14.6 years (29 female and 26 male patients).
Eleven right colectomies, 1 left colectomy, 21 sigmoid resections, 16 proctosigmoidectomies and 6 abdominoperineal resections were carried out.
Two patients (3.6 %) were lost during follow-up.
The median follow-up was 27.1 months (range 9.1-45.1 months).
No port-site metastases were found.
Two patients who are still alive after sigmoid resection suffered from a recurrence.
The first patient underwent only limited lymphadenectomy because of synchronous malignant lymphoma.
The second patient developed bilateral lung metastases.
Only one patient died during the follow-up period because of myocardial infarction.
Conclusion: Although the follow-up is short, it seems that the recurrence rate is low.
Controlled multicenter clinical trials are currently performed to evaluate whether laparoscopic surgery is really adequate to treat colorectal cancer.
The authors report a tracheal rupture in a 34-year-old patient who was primarily intubated following generalised seizures and loss of consciousness (Rüsch endotracheal tube).
Some hours later, she developed high ventilatory airway pressures and subcutaneous and mediastinal emphysema were noted.
Reintubation with a high-volume, low-pressure endotracheal tube was planned when it was noted that the ballon of the Rüsch tube was grossly overinflated.
Endotracheal tube cuff pressure was measured and found to be greater than 120 cm H2O (the maximum measurement possible with the manometer).
The diagnosis of tracheal rupture was confirmed by fiberoptic bronchoscopy.
The patient immediately underwent a throacotomy and a 3-cm tear of the pars membranacea of the trachea was sutured with a dural patch.
To maintain low airway pressures post-operatively, she remained sedated for 2 days and received a muscle relaxant to permit pressure-controlled ventilation.
In this case, it can be concluded that excessive inflation of the endotracheal tube cuff resulted in the tracheal rupture.
Other possible causes and results of tracheal rupture are discussed.
Urinary tract infections are the most frequent nosocomial infections, accounting for about 40% of all nosocomial infections.
In most cases these infections are associated with indwelling urinary catheters.
The guideline from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Atlanta, USA) for the prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infections, as the most important evidence-based guideline worldwide, was published in 1981 and has not been updated so far.
Evidence-based national guidelines are not available in Germany.
We have, therefore, performed a literature search for randomized, controlled studies on the prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infections (Medline, Cochrane Library, reference text books) published since 1981.
Fifty studies meeting our inclusion criteria were identified.
Substantial new findings have been published on alternatives to urethral catheters and new catheter materials.
Based upon the CDC guideline, whose principles are still valid, updated guidelines for the prevention of catheter-associated urinary tract infections have been developed by the National Reference Center for Hospital Hygiene.
Chronic hypoperfusion of the hypogastric arteries due to aortoiliac surgery leads to a complex of symptoms well known as Lerich's syndome.
In contrast, acute ischemia of the pelvic arterial tree leads to lethal complications [2, 4, 5, 9, 10, 12, 13].
Acute interruption of the hypogastric perfusion mainly occurs after aortoiliac surgery or after selective transcatheter embolisation of the internal iliac artery for control of pelvic bleeding [1, 8].
Several complications may occur after total occlusion: urinary bladder necrosis [6], left colon ischemia, spinal cord ischemia [10], nerve palsy, necrosis of the rectum and gluteal musculature [2, 11-13].
Despite adequate therapy, mortality is over 70% [2].
We report the case of a 66-year-old patient who survived after acute occlusion of the iliac arteries with gluteal necrosis following replacement of the infrarenal aorta with an aortobiiliacal graft.
As demonstrated in 44 allogeneic sibling (34 HLA identical, 10 HLA mismatched at 1-3 loci) and 6 unrelated (1 HLA-identical, 5 mismatched at 1-3 loci) cord blood (CB) transplantations CB has been shown to be a rich source of hematopoietic stem and progenitor cells.
Therefore, a scientific pilot project in order to evaluate HLA class I and II typed cord blood samples for unrelated transplantation was initiated.
Hitherto 372 CB samples: mean volume 79 +/-  5x108, were collected from the umbilical cord vein immediately after vaginal full term delivery (n=302) or ceasarean section (n=70) and stored frozen in liquid nitrogen.
Methods for HLA-typing by serology for HLA-class I and II from minimal cell amounts were adjusted that only 1.5 ml of the whole CB was needed for both the HLA-class I and II typing by serology (1 ml) and DNA-typing for HLA-class II (0.5 ml).
Only 3.5 additional ml of the CB were required for the AB0 typing, control of sterility, determination of progenitor cells by colony forming assays and CD34 and the analysis of contaminating maternal cells by simultaneous immunophenotypic and genotypic analysis of interphase cells and the PCR using sequence-specific priming (PCR-SSP) for the non-inherited maternal allel.
Mother'sera have been tested for HBsAg, anti-HCV, -HAV, -HIV-1-2, -EBV, -VCA, -HTLVI-II, -CMV, Toxoplasmosis and Syphilis.
Nonepithelial malignant tumors of the pancreas are extremely rare neoplasms with a frequency of ~0,6%.
They are always explored because of a suspected diagnosis of pancreatic carcinoma.
Amongst the more than 600 primary pancreatic neoplasms in our pancreatic tumor archive only 5 neoplasms were of nonepithelial origin (one was a malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor [MPNST], one a leiomyosarcoma, one a malignant mesothelioma, and two were peripheral neuroectodermal tumors [PNET].
The differential diagnosis includes secondary infiltration of the pancreas by mesenchymal tumors of the retroperitoneum, undifferentiated pancreatic carcinoma and, especially in the case of PNET, malignant lymphoma.
Preoperative chemotherapy and down-staging can improve the operability and  prognosis, especially in PNET.
In patients with renal or hepatic failure, the pharmacokinetics of opioids may be affected in several ways, leading to the necessity to correct the dose.
The liver is the major site for biotransformation of most opioids.
The major metabolic pathway is oxidation.
Exceptions to this are morphine and buprenorphine, which undergo primarily glucuronidation, and remifentanil which is cleared by esther hydrolysis.
The hydrophilic metabolites are predominantly excreted by the kidneys and may accumulate in patients with renal insufficiency.
Some metabolites such as morphine-6-glucuronide (M6G) or normeperidine are active opioid agonists.
With high concentrations they may cause narcotic effects or respiratory depression.
In addition, special risks are known for normepridine that has been shown to exert neurotoxic effects with the risk of seizures.
Few cases of respiratory depression following the administration of codeine, dihydrocodeine and tramdol have been reported.
The elimination half-life of these drugs was prolonged.
Lastly, the disposition of methadone, buprenorphine, fentanyl, sufentanyl and remifentanil appears to be unaffected in renal failure.
Backgrounds: Aim of this study was to validate a modification of adults' 13C-urea breath test for children in diagnosis of an infection with Helicobacter pylori.
Methods: In 30 asymptomatic children results of the breath test were compared with results of an ELISA test specific for Helicobacter pylori.
In 10 symptomatic children the breath test result was compared with histological results of gastric mucosa.
Cold orange juice was tested by ultrasonic assessment to be suitable as a test meal.
Results: With the serological or histological result as reference method, the cut-off value for children (delta value = 5 permil) has shown a sensitivity/specificity of 70 %/95 % or 100 %/100 % respectively.
Cold orange juice meets the criteria of a test meal by inhibiting the gastric emptying for the duration of the breath test significantly.
30 minutes after 13C-urea ingestion has been the optimal point of time for the second breath sample collection.
Conclusion: Our modification of the 13C-urea breath test for children is suitable to prove an Helicobacter pylori infection.
This review summarizes some aspects of German pediatrics as it developed after world war II.
Having lost its touch with international pediatrics regained its high standard during the late forties and fifties and now develops in concordance with the changing needs and the advances of pediatrics in a highly industialoized nation.
As in other countries, the practice and structure of pediatrics have been influenced by changes in social attidudes and expectations, and by economic restrictions.
National specifics are the high number of practicing pediatric population and emphasis on a highly structured and formalized preventive care program under a public health plan.
The need for critical evaluation of this program is emphasized as is the need for better communication among subspecialties.
Aim of this study was to isolate T lymphocytes from atheromatous plaques and to determine they respond to Chlamydia antigens.
In recent years, mumps orchitis has become a rarely reported disease.
However, since October 1994 a clear increase in the incidence of this disease has been observed.
At four hospitals in the Saarland, Germany, 45 cases of mumps orchitis in adolescents and adults were diagnosed in this period.
In addition to the case history and clinical findings, the diagnosis was confirmed by an increased IgM titer.
None of the patients had been previously vaccinated.
The main reason for this was a lack of parental knowledge of the necessity for this vaccination, one which has almost no side effects.
The goal of this study is to describe the disease, present our own results, and indicate the need for vaccination.
In addition to providing information, a further aim of the study is to increase the motivation of adolescents and adults for vaccination.
Although many treatments for mumps have been published in recent years, the most successful therapy is still prophylactic vaccination.
Neurofibromas, café au lait macules and freckles in the axillary or inguinal regions are common manifestations of von Recklinghausen's neurofibromatosis (NF-1).
Less known is the simultaneous appearance of dermal melanocytic naevi.
We describe the case of a 21-year-old Vietnamese woman who showed generalized, multiple neurofibromas, a solitary plexiform neurofibroma in the left gluteal region and Lisch nodules.
In addition, there were several large grey-blue macules histologically characterized by fusiform pigment-bearing cells in the dermis, which we diagnosed as persistent aberrant mongolian spots.
In the right zygomatic region she presented a grey-blue, hair-bearing macule, which we saw as a variant of Ota's naevus.
A genetic background for this coincidence of a systemic with a local phakomatosis can be supposed, as both Schwann's cells and melanocytes are derived from the neural crest.
Such pathologic rearrangement in the embryogenesis of the cellular elements could be important for the pathogenesis of NF-1 and dermal melanocytic nevi.
Infectious agents may directly or indirectly (through the response of the host's immune system) modulate the growth of vascular cells.
Local and/or systemic increase of cytokines could influence the extent of (re-)stenosis in the vascular tree.
Further studies in this field may identify patients at a high risk for atherogenesis and restenosis.
Their results should be helpful in treating restenosis after percutaneous coronary interventions.
Besides other reasons, cost containments mandate the rational use of preoperative screening tests which should be adapted to the risk of the individual patient.
Since the perioperative cardiac risk increases with age, elderly patients in particular require a thorough evaluation of their perioperative risk.
Routine ECG, however, is not indicated in patients under 45 years of age who do not present with signs or history of preexisting cardiac diseases but should be performed on a routine basis in all patients over 45 years of age.
The validity of an ergometer test as a preoperative indicator of myocardial ischemia is limited due to a high incidence of false negative results.
By preoperative routine chest radiography previously unknown findings are only detected in a small number of patients; thus, in patients of ASA-risk groups I-II younger than 74 years of age routine chest-x-ray cannot be justified.
In patients whose perioperative cardiac risk as assessed clinically and by ECG is ambiguous, dipyridamole-thallium-myocardial scintigraphy (DTMS) and dobutamine-stress-echocardiography may contribute valuable information regarding the prediction of perioperative adverse cardiac events.
In that respect, dobutamine-stress-echocardiography appears to be superior to DTMS.
The laboratory tests required in patients of different ASA-risk groups and according to their age are presented in an overview.
Generalized muscle weakness in critically ill patients can result in prolonged periods of artificial ventilation and longer stays in the intensive care unit.
Both neuropathic (critical illness polyneuropathy) and myopathic (critical illness myopathy) abnormalities seem to play an important role for this prolonged weakness.
This article reviews its complex differential diagnosis with special emphasis on the current understanding of the neuromuscular syndromes.
An efficient diagnostic plan is necessary for the exclusion of other curable causes of prolonged muscle weakness even in the presence of polyneuromyopathic changes.
Psychological support of the patient and prophylaxis of secondary complications of prolonged immobilization are crucial when specific therapy is not possible.
Modern ultrasonic diagnostic instruments with high resolution and color Doppler sonography allow the obstetrician to describe pathological findings very precisely and at an early stage of pregnancy.
The use of high-resolution ultrasound makes it possible to detect heart malformations already between the 8th and 10th week of gestation.
This development has essentially changed the clinical requirements on fetal autopsy which in its traditional way no longer meets the increased demands.
Unless the pathologists faces this challenge the importance of fetal autopsy will diminish.
Modern image databases and communication techniques allow the pathologist to have direct access to text and images of pre-findings by other clinics.
Great importance, however, must be attached to the interdisciplinary cooperation with obstetricians and geneticists.
We report on routine fetal autopsy by using an interdisciplinary database an the Charité.
Infrainguinal arterial reconstruction for intermittent claudication has been discouraged because of fear of bypass graft failure, significant perioperative complications, and limb loss.
This may be worse than the natural history of the disease.
In our study, we retrospectively evaluated all infrainguinal bypass procedures performed in the past 10 years.
Radiosurgery represents a minimally invasive radiologic method for the treatment of intracranial tumours and arteriovenous malformations.
In 1994 the radiosurgical device 'Leksell Gamma Knife' (LGK) was installed in a dedicated logistic environment for outpatient treatments.
High quality requirements have to be met for radiosurgery.
The target point accuracy taking into account the whole system was shown to be reliably below 0.5 mm whereas the spatial therapeutic resolution was 0.035 cm3.
Quality parameters of the dose plan were evaluated for the first 500 consecutive treatments.
These values and examples of dose plans were used to emphasize the advantages of the treatment principle with multiple isocenters.
An analysis of data in the literature revealed that there is no uniform standard of treatment available in radiosurgery.
A highly significant correlation between a risk prediction model for the stereotactic linear accelerator on the one hand and a different model for the LGK on the other could be shown.
This result could be helpful in order to proceed towards a more uniform treatment standard in radiosurgery and to improve overall treatment results.
Even if Ignaz Philipp Semmelweis has not found the true aetiology of puerperal fever - bacteria were identified as pathogens only after his observations - he was the first to consequently use epidemiological methods in order to elucidate connections and influencing factors in the spread of nosocomial infections, to draw the right conclusions from his observations on the transmission of childbed fever and to draw the right consequences by implementing preventive measures, especially the hand disinfection.
He has correctly realized that human beings suffering from purulent or putride lesions or having even died from them can act as infectious sources as can hands of health-care personnel act as vehicles.
As a characteristic feature of nosocomial infection, he noticed that generally only the weakend organism of the patient is involved as an infection target.
The impact of his doctrine not only made him "saviour of the mothers" but also justifies to regard him as "father of the obstetric infection prevention" if not even as the founder of the modern science-based hospital hygiene.
In this paper we present a method for measuring the wear of the polyethylene inlay in knee joint endoprostheses from standard X-ray images.
Our approach is to estimate the spatial position of the tibial and femoral components of the prostheses from their contours in the X-ray image.
When we know the exact shape of these two components, we can calculate the minimal spatial distance between them which approximates the remaining thickness of the inlay.
First results show that this approach might provide sufficient accuracy for the given task.
Most children with borreliosis show cutaneous symptoms following a tick bite infected with Borrelia Burgdorferi.
Erythema migrans is a classical skin lesion of early borreliosis characterized by a centrifugally expanding erythema at the site of the prior tick bite.
After hematological spreading of the vector multiple erythemata migrantia occur with a very low incidence in Europe as described in the case of a 2 1/2 years old infant who was successfully treated with oral cephalosporine.
One year follow-up revealed no further manifestations of borreliosis.
This means an excellent prognosis for those children with borreliosis who are treated promptly.
Background: We compared the standard suprathreshhold strategy to the so-called threshhold splitting strategy with 5 and 2 dB steps.
The aim of the study was to establish whether the threshhold splitting strategy had advantages over the suprathreshhold strategy that has been used to date.
Resection specimens of 14 patients with small cell bronchial carcinoma after neoadjuvant chemotherapy were processed histologically and graded according to a three-step regression grading system: grade I, no or only slight tumor regression; grade II, incomplete tumor regression; grade III, complete tumor regression without vital tumor tissue.
In five patients with either no vital tumor tissue or only small tumor remnants in the resection samples, a typical sequence of central fresh tumor necrosis, foam cell rim, vascular granulation tissue and peripheral scar formation was seen.
This morphological finding may be interpreted as a characteristic, but unspecific parameter of good response to preoperative chemotherapy.
The presence of vital tumor rims surrounding the capillary bed with intermingled necrotic foci, however, argues in favor of spontaneous tumor regression, which is commonly observed in small cell lung cancer.
Background: The term "Castleman's diseas" (angiofollicular lymph node hyperplasia) comprises a heterogeneous clinicopathologic entity among lymphoproliferative disorders.
In accordance with the German law on care for helpless persons, an observer rating scale has been developed to allow a staging of need of care.
Construction of the scale, item descriptions, definitions, algorithms for sum score and inter-rater reliability data are reported.
The scale can reliably measure the need of care, quality of care, and who is the care provider.
5-Fluorouracil (5-FU) improves the success of trabeculectomy.
Since in vitro studies showed a prolonged effect of 36 days of growth inhibition with a single dose of 5-FU, 5-FU is applied intraoperatively.
To evaluate the effect of intraoperatively applied 5-FU, we compared 13 (low-risk) patients with intraoperative application of 5-FU to a control group matched by age, diagnosis, sex and stage of glaucoma.
Postoperatively on day 4 the IOP was significant lower (4.8 mmHg) in the 5-FU-group in comparison to the untreated group (P=0.005; power 0.80).
After 1 week the difference decreased to 2 mmHg and was not significant any more (P=0.16).
After 1 week a lower mean intraocular pressure of 2 mmHg was found with a P-value of 0.16.
It may be that these results are not just due to an antiproliferative mechanism; a direct toxic effect of 5-FU should be considered.
5-FU side effects such as corneal complications and inflammatory reaction were not increased in the 5-FU group.
However, one case of persistent hypotony was seen in the 5-FU group.
This study found intraoperative use of 5-FU to be a safe procedure with a pronounced capacity to lower IOP in the direct postoperative phase.
However, this effect may not be based on an antiproliferative effect alone, but might be of toxic origin.
A postoperative bile fistula is a rare but severe complication after biliary surgery.
Clinical signs, laboratory findings, ultrasound and ERC lead to diagnosis.
We report on 40 cases with postoperative bile leakage after cholecystectomy treated by a nasobiliary tube.
In all patients the fistula healed within 7 days after placement of the tube.
Two patients needed operative treatment of a subhepatic abscess, and in 2 patients drainage of a bilioma was performed.
In 2 cases with biliary peritonitis, a step-by-step lavage was necessary.
The nasobiliary tube for postoperative bile fistula offers regular radiological control and reduces the necessity of operative reintervention in the biliary tract.
Description of a 27 years old patient with chronic renal failure due to diabetes, which requires dialysis, and tertiary hyperparathyroidism, who developed fulminant systemic calciphylaxis after successful renal transplantation.
Characteristic of this syndrome, there occured soft tissue calcification, mediacalcinosis of the small and medium-sized arteries and ischemic skin necrosis.
The pathogenesis is not completely clear, but challenging agents like corticosteroids or immunsuppressants, in a sensitized organism (at hypercalcemia or elevated parathormon) could lead to calcium deposits.
These are showing a particular affinity for elastic tissue.
Lungs, stomach, kidneys, cutis, heart and vascular system are most frequently involved.
Treatment is primarily supportive; an early parathyroidectomy seems to have the best prognosis.
Contact urticaria and anaphylactic reactions to latex-containing rubber products are being recognized with increasing frequency in all kinds of medical disciplines.
Recently a number of reports have been published describing anaphylactic reactions to food items in patients with latex allergy.
The cases of three patients who developed anaphylactic reactions to both latex and food items are presented, and the importance of the association of latex and cross-reactivity with food items is stressed.
The food items that led to anaphylactic reactions were banana and avocado; banana, avocado and buckwheat; and banana, avocado and tomato.
The cross-reactivity of latex to buckwheat and tomato has not been reported before.
The branchio-oto-renal syndrome (BOR syndrome) is characterized by auricular abnormalities, lateral cervical fistulas and preauricular tags.
The hearing impairment may be a conductive, a sensorineural or a mixed hearing loss.
The renal disease is oligomeganephronia, a bilateral, congenital renal abnormality with reduced numbers of nephrons.
The BOR syndrome is an autosomal-dominant disease.
Corneal metabolism is reduced after cataract extraction.
The available literature on the psychosocial aspects of head and neck cancer surgery from 1950 to 1995 was reviewed in four parts.
The CO2 laser myringotomy is a current low-pain procedure for middle-ear ventilation for secretory otitis media (SOM) that can be performed under topical anesthesia, even in children.
The duration of middle-ear ventilation is essentially determined by the size of the perforation created.
Perforations with a diameter greater than 2 mm ventilate the tympanic cavity for approximately 3 weeks, thus avoiding tympanic ventilation tubes.
To date, the CO2 laser beam can only be reliably applied to the tympanic membrane via a micromanipulator system coupled to an ear microscope.
The CO2 laser otoscope is a new application system that markedly reduces the technical complexity of surgery and improves the mobility and availability of the system.
The incorporation of a small inexpen-sive CO2 laser in the otoscope represents a significant development in SOM therapy.
Abstract   Amifostine is an organic thiophsophate which protecvts normal cells from the effects of chemotherapy with reduced nadir and duration of cyclophosphmamid induced neutropenia, reduced cisplatin derived renal and neurological complications being described.
However, no data are available for urological malignancies treated with cisplatin-based chemotherapy.
Aim of the study was to assess the efficacy of pretreatment with amifostine in terms of prevention of renal, hematopoetic and neurologic toxicity.
17 patients (mean age: 62.6 [45-74]) with advanced transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder received inductive or adjuvant cisplatin based chemotherapy (1-6 cycles) with a cisplatin dose of 70 mg/m2.
Amifostine (740-910 mg/m2) was administered intravenously 30 minutes prior to chemotherapy.
For all patients creatinine clearance, serum creatinine and electrolytes including magnesium, and blood cell count were determined prior to and after each cycle.
A group of 12 patients (mean age: 61.9 [51-67]) did undergo MVEC chemotherapy (1-4 cycles) without receiving amifostine and served as control group.
Amifostine was well tolerated and only 1 patient suffered from gastrointestinal discomfort, blood pressure remained unchanged in all patients.
Amifostine prevented a significant reduction of creatinine clearance even in the 2 patients with known renal insufficiency: mean creatinine clearance was 125  +/-  20 ml/min prior to and 115  +/-  25 ml/min after chemotherapy.
In the control group, however, creatinine clearance dropped from 121  +/-  30 ml/min to 85  +/-  20 ml/min after completion of MVEC chemotherapy.
Serum creatinine levels did not increase significantly (1.1 mg/dl prior to and 1.2 mg/dl after chemotherapy), magnesium levels did not decrease significantly and normalized at the end of chemotherapy.
Significant neutropenia and thrombocytopenia developed in 29 % and 12 % of the patients in the amifostine group and in 67 % and 33 % of the patients in the control group.
Amifostine was shown to have a protective effect against cisplatin induced nephrotoxicity in the elderly patient undergoing systemic chemotherapy.
Based on our data amifostine should be applied in the supportive management to prevent chemotherapy induced complications.
The diagnosis of leptomeningeal dissemination of chronic lymphatic leukemia (CLL) by conventional cytology is unreliable because cytomorphologic criteria of malignancy are often lacking.
Immunophenotyping of leukocyte differentiation antigens may also be of limited diagnostic value due to the small  number of cells in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples.
Molecular methods may support the specific diagnosis of leptomeningeal infiltration of CLL.
We present an 54 old patient who was diagnosed with CLL five years ago.
Despite clinical signs of leptomeningeal  involvement neither magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) nor conventional CSF analysis were suggestive of lymphomatous meningitis.
Using PCR we selectively amplified the highly variable and clone-specific CDR3 region of the locus encoding the immunoglobulin heavy chain (IgH) in DNA obtained from both CSF and peripheral blood cells.
Analysis of PCR products by high resolution gel electrophoresis revealed a single DNA fragment respectively indicating the presence of a  monoclonal cell population in both  compartments.
DNA sequence analysis of the amplified CDR3 segments confirmed the clonal identity of cells and the leptomeningeal dissemination of CLL.
In the orthopedic department of the University Hospital Homburg/Saar, we use since 1993 a computer-based system for clinics organisation and documentation of operations.
Hardware consists of DOS/Windows PC's in a Novell-network.
Our software is a combination of datbase-system for managing patient-data and a special coding program for ICD and IKPM-digits.
Our experience shows that computer assisted clinic-management is an effective tool to help the surgeon in planning and documentation.
Until now, we used the system for 31 500 patients and 8500 operations.
A flexible software can meet the requirements both of the surgeons and administration.
Moreover, in the University hospital Homburg/Saar, the different departments are linked by an Intranet with connection to other scientific networks and the Internet.
In one third of the little girls coming to the outpatient clinic for pediatric gynecology, a vulvovaginitis can be diagnosed.
Etiologic factors are poor perineal hygiene, foreign bodies in the vagina and respiratory or skin infections.
The microbiologic investigation often reveals staphylococci, streptococci, E. coli, and in case of chronical-recurrent discharge also B. fragilis and peptostreptococci.
The symptoms are itching, burning, dysuria, discharge and rubor of the vulva.
A systemic application of antibiotics is not necessary, a local treatment with antibiotic solutions is contraindicated and the usual vaginal suppositories are unsuitable for girls.
A desinfection often irritates the vulvovaginal region of little girls so that for years we use estriol ointment only which is tolerated.
Excellently, a single-dose application being sufficient; burning, itching and discharge disappear and the vaginal epithelium gets more resistant because of the estrogen influence, so that the healing process is accelerated.
The author gives a short overview of the psychodynamic and psychoanalytic basics of psychotherapy with guided affective imagery.
The differences of the imaginations of neurotic patients and patients with severe personality disorders are demonstrated and discussed.
Two clinical cases are described in detail which show the special elements of symbol formation on different levels of ego-structure.
Then the most important results of the recent infant research and the research of attachment behaviour, especially those of the group of Fonagy, and their importance for the theory of symbol formation are discussed.
The theory of potential space is used as a base for understanding imaginative processes.
General and special technical recommandations for the treatment of borderline cases with guided affective imagery are derived.
Especially the relationship to the theories of Bion, Ogden and Winnicott is estimated.
The situation of psychiatric patients in the Ukraine is determined by the financial and economic difficulties of this country.
In the larger cities, so-called polyclinics take care of ambulant psychiatric patients.
However, no other social psychiatric institutions exist.
Here, the modalities of hospital psychiatric treatment are discussed using the psychiatric hospitals in Kiev and Shitomir as examples.
Undertreatment is also a problem, because only a few psychopharmacological drugs are produced in the Ukraine.
Import of new psychopharmacological agents is hampered by economical problems.
Improving the availability of psychopharmacological drugs and the establishment of a social psychiatric network are major aims for psychiatrists working in Ukraine.
Renal lesions are frequently encountered in blunt pediatric abdominal trauma.
In this retrospective study, we analyzed the incidence of renal trauma in these trauma patients to determine which diagnostic and therapeutic approaches were most predictive.
From 1976 to 1996, 308 children sustaining blunt abdominal trauma were admitted to our department.
Patients were evaluated using abdominal paracentesis, ultrasonography, and urinary analysis.
In specific cases, IV urography, CT scan, and/or angiography were applied.
We used the Organ Injury Scale (OIS) for classification of renal trauma into five grades.
The result of a B-scan ultrasound examination is strongly dependent on the type of the used B-system, the chosen system parameters and the experience and critical analysis of the clinical investigator.
The estimation of quantitative acoustic parameters, independent of the type of the used B-system, is one way to overcome the subjective nature and the problems of the interpretation of B-scan images.
Results of a longitudinal study about the transition to retirement are presented.
329 persons were interviewed three times (quantitative study) and 20 persons conducted a semi-structured diary (qualitative study), covering in both groups a two-year period (from half a year before retirement to one and a half years after retirement).
They were asked about their subjective well-being (happiness, joy, satisfaction, stresses), their life situation and their personal, social and material resources.
The results show that the transition to retirement brings with it gains (leisure time) and losses (financial, social status), but overall maintains a high level of well-being.
Specific analyses point out inter-individual differences, risk factors and resources, like a high level of trait well-being, health, social networks and an optimistic outlook.
The diary analyses lead to specifications, more detailed process analyses and hypotheses about cohort effects.
Consequences for an adequate preparation for retirement are discussed.
Intraoperative complications can be divided into three categories on the basis of the time of their occurrence: Group I - Problems associated with access; group II: introduction of the endovascular stent (a: release of the main segment, b: anchoring the second limb); and group III: incidence of primary endoleaks.
Interferon alpha and gamma have been used to treat several hepatic, hematological and oncological diseases for years.
Recently, interferon beta has been introduced as a therapeutic agent in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis.
A 41-year-old female patient with multiple sclerosis developed non-tender, palm-sized, cutaneous-subcutaneous, reddish infiltrates at the injection sites on her thighs after 8 weeks of treatment with subcutaneous interferon beta injections.
Histopathology revealed a perivascular lymphoid infiltrate of the dermis and a subtle lobular lymphoid infiltrate of the subcutis.
Interferon beta therapy was discontinued for 4 weeks.
With topical corticosteroids, the skin lesions resolved.
When subcutaneous injections were resumed at a reduced dose, only erythema around injection sites developed without induration or pain.
Slight erythema and swelling at interferon beta injection site are frequent and rare cases of cutaneous necrosis have been described.
However, no reports of large, painful, cutaneous-subcutaneous infiltrates after interferon beta therapy have been published.
In adults, infectious spondylitis is a rare but severe disease, caused by a bacterial thrombus in tissue of reduced resistance.
In conventional radiographs initial findings are a narrowing of the intervertebral space, local osteoporosis and poorly defined erosive borders of the vertebral endplates.
These changings can be found at least three to six weeks after the onset of disease.
However, in Szintigraphy and MRT pathologic alterations are evident after ten to twelve days.
Thus, early diagnosis and treatment becomes possible.
In early stages of the disease a localized lysis surrounded by a reactive sclerosis appears in predisposed areas of the vertebral body (subchondral, anterobasal, ventral, central).
Apparently, a soft tissue tumor is associated.
Sclerosis and reduction of the soft tissue tumor are the first signs of repair processes.
After at least 12 weeks, computed tomography can reveal typical sintering of the vertebral body and occasionally the development of a bony sequester.
In addition, MRT as well as CT can be helpful in the detection and localization of complications as abscesses or affection of the vertebral canal.
The tuberculous spondylitis can sometimes cause difficulties in differential diagnosis.
Clinical findings, affection of several vertebral bodies, large soft tissue tumors with appearance of calcification as well as not typical locations are strongly suggestive of tuberculous spondylitis, but these findings are not specific of the disease.
Degenerative disorders such as erosive osteochondrosis or changings due to chronic dialysis (e. g. amyloid or crystal arthropathies) may cause even more problems in differential diagnosis.
Typical for a blastomatous process is the integrity of the interverebral disc space, which is a rare finding in spondylitis.
To show the possibilities of imaging diagnostic procedures using high and extremely high resolution ultrasonic probes we investigated the anatomic structures of the foot.
We examinated 10 cadaver foots of the anatomic institute and in a clinical trial 20 healthy patients with 10 to 20-MHz-probes and could identify correctly single tendons and ligaments even in the toe region.
Especially the possibility of dynamic examination had to be mentioned beside the other advantages of ultrasound diagnostic (saving of expenses, lack of radiation, side-to-side comparison).
An essential parameter for the incorporation of drugs and narcotics into head hair is the content of hair pigment (melanins).
Toxicological studies of hair should therefore take the colour of the hair into consideration.
As the available vocabulary for verbal characterisation is small and the description depends on the subjective opinion of the viewer, it was the purpose of this study to investigate if colorimetric measurements allow objectivation of hair colour.
The natural hair colour of 17 subjects was described subjectively in words and by comparing it with a hair colour chart (Wella, Darmstadt, Germany).
Subsequently the colours of the hair and the samples of the hair colour chart used for comparison were measured by colorimetric analysis and the CIEL*a*b* values were determined.
The descriptive categorisation of the hair colours (e.g.
blonde, brown, black) could often not be recognised in the colorimetric results.
Sometimes considerable differences were also found between the colour values of the natural hair samples and the specimens used for comparison.
When the colour measurements were repeated at intervals of several days the results were found to be reproducible.
We measured the ventilatory pattern and additional work of breathing (WOBadd) at three different levels of inspiratory pressure support [IPS 5, 10, 15 mbar above positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEP)] and in a new ventilatory mode, automatic tube compensation (ATC), in nine operative patients without lung injury nine patients ventilated for several following acute respiratory insufficiency (ARI).
In ATC, endotracheal tube resistance is compensated automatically by means of closed-loop control of the calculated tracheal pressure.
Pressure support in this mode, i. e. airway pressure above PEEP, is equal to the actual flow-dependent pressure drop across the endotracheal tube (ETT).
Airway pressure rises at the beginning of inspiration and falls towards the end.
As the tube resistance of ETT seriously hinders expiration and can cause desynchronization between ventilator and patient, airway pressure is reduced below PEEP during expiration in the same way as it is increased during inspiration.
The result is a near-constant tracheal pressure at PEEP both during inspiration and during expiration.
This mode could be best termed as "electronic extubation".
The most striking difference between the postoperative patients and the ARI patients was their minute ventilation (17.8+/-1.85 l/min in ARI patients vs 7.3+/-3.1 l/min in the postoperative patients).
In the postoperative patients augmentation of IPS from 5 to 15 mbar induced a steady increase in tidal volume (VT) and a consecutive decrease in respiratory rate (rr) compared with ATC (VTATC,postop= 463+/-78 ml; rrATC,postop =16+/-4 min-1; VTIPS5,postop = 505+/-79 ml; rrIPS5,postop = 15+/-4 min-1; VTIPS10,postop = 562+/-86 ml; rrIPS15,postop =14+/-4 min-1; VTIPS15,postop=660+/- 151 ml; rrTPS15, postop = 12+/-4 min-1), whereas the augmentation of IPS of 5 and 10 mbar in the ARI patients could not compensate for the increase in rr and the decrease in VT, after switching from ATC to IPS (VTATC,ARI 724+/-308 ml, rrATC,ARI = 24+/-6 min-1; VTIPS5,ARI = 649+/-315 ml; rrIPS 5,ARI = 27+/-8 min-1; VTIPS10,ARI=653+/-353 ml; rrIPS10,ARI = 25+/-8 min-1: Even IPS 15 was not able to reestablish VT at the values observed during ATC (VTIPS15,ARI =680+/-312 ml).
During ATC WOBadd was small in both postoperative and ARI patients (WOBadd,ATC,postop = 93+/-36 mJ/l, WOBadd,ATC,ARI =116 +/-72 mJ/l).
In the postoperative patients, an inspiratory pressure support of 5 mbar was not sufficient to compensate WOBadd compared with ATC.
However, IPS 10 and 15 mbar were able to compensate for WOBadd (WOBadd.ATC5,postop WOBadd,IPS5,postop =189+/-77 mJ/l; WOBadd,IPS10,postop = 55+/-30 mJ/l; WOBadd,IPS15,postop = 21+/-11 mJ/l).
In the ARI patients an IPS 5, 10 or 15 mbar was not sufficient to compensate for WOBadd (WOBadd,IPS 5,ARI = 1126+/-262 mJ/l; WOBadd,IPS 10,ARI 863+/-253 mJ/l; WOBadd,IPS 15,ARI 763+/-298 mJ/l).
Under ATC, WOBadd was only 15% of WOBadd under IPS of 15 mbar.
All but two patients were successfully extubated after the investigation.
These two patients were not extubated because they were dependent on an FIO2 >0.5.
Our results strongly indicate that ventilatory dependence in ARI patients may be caused by the ETT rather than by mechanical dysfunction of the lung.
ATC is a very helpful mode to use in distinguishing between ventilatory failure caused by ETT and real ventilatory dependence.
The preoperative localization of pharmaco-resistent focal epilepsies before surgery and the prognosis concerning seizure outcome are both of importance.
In addition to conventional MRI diagnostics for the detection of small epileptogenic lesions, proton magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging (HMR spectroscopy) can be useful for assessing the bilaterality of pathological changes in cryptogenic temporal lobe epilepsies.
The technique and findings of HMR spectroscopy are reported in patients with cryptogenic temporal lobe epilepsies.
The findings indicate that chemical shift imaging (CSI) investigations of the ipsilateral and contralateral hemispheres provide important information for the prediction of seizure outcome after epilepsy surgery.
This paper describes the conceptual considerations in planning and realizing an inpatient unit for traumatized patients.
The different concepts of the dynamic of the traumatic disease and the aetiopathology of posttraumatic stressdisease (PTSD) are highly significant in regard to the realisation of differing concepts of inpatient therapy of trauma.
The utilisation of Konzentrative Bewegungstherapy (KBT) and Creative Therapy in our conflict- and solution-oriented analytic concept permits us to neglect a fictitious contradiction between traumaexposure and traumalimitation and a "potential space" (Winnicott) can be opened to the creative work with the patients.
This paper illustrates with some casuistic examples the utilisation of KBT in transforming the traumatic body-flashbacks into narrative memory-scripts, by the use of symbolizing processes.
In 55 consecutive patients with the same dual chamber pacemaker (Relay, Intermedics) and different pacing leads, the influence of different safety margins for pacing on battery current was investigated.
2.8 +/- 0.9 years after implantation, atrial and ventricular pulse-width thresholds (tRS) (ms) were determined at 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 V, and the charge delivered at threshold was telemetered.
If tRS was <1.50 ms at 0.5 V, an amplitude of 1.0 V was programmed in the atrium and the ventricule; if tRS was <1.50 ms at 1.0 V, then an amplitude of 2.0 V was chosen.
Two times the charge threshold (2x QRS), two times the voltage threshold (2x URS), and three times the pulse-width threshold (3x tRS) were programmed as the safety margins for pacing.
With every safety margin, battery current (IRS) (µA) was averaged from 5 telemetric readings in D00 mode with 70 bpm.
IBat was significantly lower with 2x QRS as compared with 2x URS (13.43 +/- 1.0 vs. 14.20 +/- 1.2 µA, p<0.01) and as compared with 3x tRS (13.99 +/- 1.2 µA, p<0.05).
Pacemaker longevity derived from these current data was significantly longer with 2x QRS (112 +/- 8 months) as compared with 2x URS (106 +/- 9, p<0.01) and as compared with 3x tRS (108 +/- 8, p<0.05).
If current consumption is compared intraindividually in dependance on the programmed amplitude, battery current is significantly lower at 1.0 V as compared with 2.0 V resulting in a mean reduction of 0.63 µA (-4.9%, p<0.05) and an average gain in longevity of 5 months.
This applies to every safety margin tested.
Differences in battery current caused by the safety margins will translate into a greater gain in longevity in future pacemaker models with reduced internal current consumption.
Any medical procedure must be legally authorized by the patient, giving informed consent.
This prerequisite is based on the right to self determination.
Otherwise a medical procedure is considered as physical injury.
Thus, the way, how a specific procedure is performed, predominantly depends on the patient's will.
The attending physician's duty is to find out this will, which is especially important when old patients and patients incapable of giving valid consent are involved.
Before the procedure the physician has to have a confidential talk with the patient.
He has to point out the best treatment possible considering the individual circumstances of the patient's life.
The physician has to find out, weather the patient is competent to refuse or consent to treatement.
Furthermore the consultation is an opportunity to diminish the patient's fear and to increase his confidence.
The main problem treating old patients is that they often lack the mental ability for appreciation of the nature of the situation.
One has to differentiate between the physiological mental decay and dementia or psychiatric diseases.
In these cases a third party consent is necessary.
This review of German neurology during the Nazi era mentions first the significance of Jewish neurologists for the history of the specialty, and the irreplaceable loss that their expulsion from Germany represented.
A brief discussion of the scientific accomplishments of German neurologists during this time is followed by a description of violations of ethical principles, exemplified by the human experiments of G. Schaltenbrand.
The spirit of the age exerted a malevelent influence.
A postal survey targeted at 1000 firms in the metal- and electronic working industry of Northrhine Westfalia was carried out by Sozialforschungsstelle Dortmund und Institute of geronotology to analyze the implementation of the collective agreement concerning partial retirement.
As the results show, firms in Northrhine Westfalia are willing to accept the collective agreement and use partial retirement though there are still problems left to solve.
Firms are further using partial retirement as an instrument of early retirement.
Therefore partial retirement is created as a so-called "blocked model".
From February 1991 to May 1998, 340 patients had a cardioverter/defibrillator (ICD) implanted.
Mean age was 64  +/-  9 years, 278 male and 62 female.
60% of patients had coronary artery disease and 31% dilative cardiomyopathy.
Ejection fraction was 38  +/-  14%.
The indication for an implantable cardioverter/defibrillator was in 57% of patients ventricular tachycardia, in 43% ventricular fibrillation.
298 patients had a single-chamber cardioverter/defibrillator implanted, 42 patients a dual-chamber cardioverter/defibrillator.
In 25 patients additional subcutaneous patch or array electrodes and in 2 patients additional epicardial patch electrodes were implanted.
Implantation site was in 92 patients abdominal and in 248 pectoral.
Over a period of 7 years 34 lead-related complications occured in 33 patients (9.7%), after a median of 2 months after implantation.
Diagnosis was made by routine chest x-ray in about 55% of lead-related complications, by clinical presentation (inadequate therapy, pain) in 24%, and by electrical parameters in 21%.
In patients with an abdominal implantation site, lead-related complications occurred in 20%, in contrast to 6% in patients with a pectoral implantation site.
Regarding patients with pectoral implantation site, lead-related complications were observed in 12% of patients with a dual-chamber ICD vs 4% with a single-chamber ICD (p = 0.05), due to dislocation of atrial electrodes with dual-chamber ICD.
There were no differences in clinical parameters between patients with pectoral vs abdominal and between single vs dual-chamber ICD.
Several new approaches are available for early defibrillation.
One example is semiautomatic defibrillators used by the first arriving emergency staff.
The recommendations for introducing emergency medical technician (EMT) defibrillation in Germany are based either on the results in cities with so called doctor-manned-ambulances or the experiences of the German multi-center-study.
This analysis intends to contribute data to an EMT defibrillation program in cities with a so called rendezvous-system.
Methods: In a prospective study a EMT-defibrillation group (= DG) was compared with a standard group (basic life support by EMTs and defibrillation by emergency physicians) (= SG) and a control group (emergency physicians starting resuscitation alone or together with EMTs) (= CG).
In the DG semiautomatic defibrillators from Laerdal (Heartstart 3000) were used.
Successfully resuscitated patients were followed up with the Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), the Pittsburgh Brain Stem Score (PBSS), and Pittsburgh Cerebral (CPC) and Overall Performance Categorie (OPC).
Results: Over 13 months 43 patients were included, primarily presenting with ventricular fibrillation (VF).
Depending on the first arriving emergency staff the patients were allocated to the DG (n = 12), to the SG (n = 18) or to the CG (n = 13).
DG and SG did not differ significantly concerning the primary survival rate or the long-term prognosis (primary successful 8.3% vs. 38.9%, definite successful 0% vs. 27.8%).
The primary survival rate in the DG was significantly lower than in the CG (8.3% vs. 61.5%).
In the long term survival rate there were no significant differences.
In the DG significantly less patients received bystander CPR (8.3%) than in the other groups (55.6% and 69.2%).
Neither the variable "witnessed collapes" nor "bystander CPR" had a significant influence for the outcome of the patients in this study.
The average response time for the first arriving rescue team was 5.5 +/- 2.4 min, without a significant difference between the groups.
Conclusions: A comparison of this study with American, European and German recommendations for EMT defibrillation programms revealed some deviations.
Bystander CPR seems to be of special importance as well as the time interval between defibrillation and the arrival of the emergency physician.
A benefit of EMT defibrillation could not be demonstrated in our "rendezvous-system", possibly because the time interval was less than 4 min (3.5 min).
Since the result is in accordance with the German multi-center-study, a critical consideration of a EMT defibrillation program seems to be necessary in "Rendezvous-systems".
Ninety-two strains of glycopeptide-resistant enterococci (GRE) from 80 patients of 31 hospitals in 11 federal states were analyzed.
They were primarily isolated in intensive care units (general, surgical, internistic, pediatric, oncological ones), but also in nephrologic/dialysis or neurologic/orthopaedic wards.
A dominance of VanA type E. faecium strains was observed (n=81; 88.0%).
In addition, strains of E. faecalis (VanA; n=4; 4.4%), E. faecium (VanB; n=1; 1.1%), and E. gallinarum (VanC1, n=6; 6.5%) were found.
The 81 VanA strains of E. faecium possessed the following resistances to other antibiotics: erythromycin, ciprofloxacin (both 93.8%), ampicillin, oxytetracycline (both 88.9%), rifampicin (79.0%), trimethoprim/sulfameracin (61.7%), chloramphenicol (18.9%), fusidic acid (12.3%), quinupristin/dalfopristin (7.4%); gentamicin (46.9%) and streptomycin (37.0%), also together with ampicillin resistance (9.9-35.8%).
In some of these VanA type strains resistance to teicoplanin cannot be completely expressed in-vitro.
Macrorestriction analysis of E. faecium outbreak isolates (VanA type) from hospitals in different federal states indicated an intra- and interhospital spread of a defined strain.
However, heterogeneous plasmid and plasmid restriction patterns showed that these strains were not completely identical.
The scapulothoracic dissociation (SD) is a complex injury of the shoulder girdle, mostly associated with polytraumatized critically ill patients.
This case report of 3 patients shows the variety of possible injuries combined with SD.
Diagnosis and therapy in such a rare trauma, which is most likely seen in specialized trauma centres are being described.
The 3 patients are presented from trauma to management, with remarks to various possibilities in treatment.
Reports of other groups include multicenter studies with small numbers of patients, making it different to look for homogenity or defining standards, whereas current guidelines are being mentioned, including remarks on the management of these mostly polytraumatized and vitally endangered patients.
This is a case report on arthroscopic removal of a glass splinter from the knee joint of a 56-year-old male.
Recurrent hemarthrosis of the knee was the reason for differential diagnosis, as the patient could not remember any trauma.
After performing MRI, a 12 x 5 mm signal-free zone showed up in the area of the lateral condylus femoris, which was identified through arthroscopy as a glass splinter and removed.
The patient was discharged soon after without any complaints.
Many patients with acquired strabismus do not suffer from diplopia and confusion after an individually and age-dependent interval.
They inhibit the image of the deviated eye by binocular rilvary and particularly by the physiological ability to disregard visually disturbing stimuli.
Red cells, platelet concentrates and fresh frozen plasma of a single donation contain leucocytes, causing a lot of side effects.
Modern filtration- and apheresis-techniques lead to a reduction of residual leucocyte counts of <1x106 per unit.
The best method to achieve controlled and validated conditions is the blood bank performed standardised prestorage-filtration.
This is an effective method, to prevent cytokine-mediated and leucocyte-mediated febrile nonhaemolytic transfusion reactions (FNHTR), to prevent a primary immunisation to leucocyte- and histocompatibility-antigens, to avoid transmission of viral infections by blood transfusion, e.g.
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) and to exclude in special cases bacterial septicaemia.
In addition, there are references to reduce the postoperative infections, the rate of recurrence of a tumor and the postoperative complications in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.
The use of leucocyte-depleted blood components for special indications is meanwhile established.
Some European countries have made a decision for a general filtration of all blood components containing leucocytes.
The authors recommend the general leucocyte-depletion of blood components considering the German medical law (AMG) and cost/benefit ratio.
Evaluation of psychotherapeutic or psychopharmacological treatment frequently uses rating scales without regard for patients' defensiveness.
This study demonstrates on 309 psychotherapy patients treated with inpatient client-centered therapy and followed-up 1 year after treatment that defensiveness, measured with validity scales of personality inventories MMPI-K, FPI-R and Gießen-Test, influences ratings (scales CGI, HAMA, HAMD, BRMES) before and after therapy.
Patients who deny psychopathology on admission do so at discharge and to some extent at follow-up.
The extent of effect is significantly diminished with an increase in frankness in these patients, indicated by the significant improvement in validity scales.
Inpatient client-centered psychotherapy improved defensiveness in the case of initial self-criticism and diminished it in the case of initial retentiveness.
Introduction: Because of their frequency and consequences sciatica remains a demanding clinical entity with significant social and economical impact.
There is a high demand on therapeutic modalities, using folk medicine methods in the treatment of orthopaedic  diseases.
No data is available on the usefullness of methods like natural herbs in combination with acupuncture.
Aim of our study was to present data on the effect of acupuncture and cytokineinhibiting natural herbs in sciatic pain.
We compared these  results with nerve root infiltration by local anaesthetics and corticosteroids in our  orthopaedic outpatient clinic.
Materials and Results: 278 patients with chronic pain for at least 3 months were observed.
All three therapeutical modalities showed improvement of pain scores.
Best  results were gained with steroid injection (n=26; 66% pain reduction), acupuncture in combination with herbs improved the pain in average of 62% (n=230), whereas injection with local anaesthetic had a pain reduction of 48% (n=22).
Sole Mepivacain-HCl treatment had significant less pain reduction compared to the other treatment modalities.
Conclusion: According to our results acupuncture in combination with herbs and  steroid nerve blocks appear to be an effective and thus recommendable conservative  therapy in cases of sciatic pain.
Taking into account that patients increasingly prefer ethnomedical modalities of treatment our study gains importance for practising  orthopaedists.
This paper concerns advances in the integration of psychotherapy in psychiatric education and clinical practice and whether they go along with increasing research activities.
To find answers, a survey on psychotherapy research was carried out in all German psychiatric hospitals and departments by means of a questionnaire.
The results indicate that psychotherapy research is done nearly exclusively in university hospitals.
About half of them had already published psychotherapy studies and two thirds of them are presently carrying out studies, mostly including prospective, randomized clinical trials.
These studies cover the whole spectrum of psychiatric disorders: substance abuse, schizophrenic and affective disorders, anxiety, and obsessive compulsive and personality disorders.
To improve psychotherapy research conditions further, efforts are necessary to increase scientific exchange, financial support, and the integration of institutions outside the universities.
There is little to suggest that the course of preeclamsia can be substantially affected by drug treatment.
The vast majority of randomized studies do not indicate beneficial effects of antihypertensive treatment on proteinuria, fetal heart rate abnormalities, abruptio placentae and the incidence of preterm birth.
There is also no definite effect on the development of superimposed preeclampsia, HELLP syndrome, renal failure or eclampsia.
Moreover, blood pressure lowering agents fail to improve uteroplacental perfusion but may have adverse effects on fetal growth.
Antihypertensive treatment is only indicated in severe hypertension ( > 170/110 mm Hg) to reduce the risk of cerebral hemorrhage.
Dihydralazine injections may result in reduced placental blood flow and fetal distress.
Oral nifedipine offers some advantages in view of more potent vasodilator actions on uterine and fetoplacental vessels and a lower incidence of fetal distress.
Increasing evidence suggests that the mechanism of eclamptic seizure is cerebral vasoconstriction with resultant ischemia.
Cerebral vessels are particularly sensitive to magnesium, which works by reversing cerebral vasoconstriction with resultant improvement in blood flow.
Controlled trials have shown magnesium to be superior to both placebo and phenytoin for the prevention of eclampsia.
Furthermore, magnesium has been found to be more effective than diazepam and phenytoin in preventing recurrence of seizures in women with eclampsia.
Also the neonatal outcome favors magnesium, which is now generally accepted as the drug of choice for the prevention and treatment of eclampsia.
Baker's cysts were treated operatively in 19 patients in the Department of Traumatology of the University of Cologne from 1988 to 1997.
The subjective and objective results were evaluated with a questionnaire and a clinical examination and sonography (follow-up: 95 %).
All patients were examinated before surgery, sonography and X-ray of the knee were performed.
We differentiated between the congenital primary cyst (39 %), and the secondary form, which was always associated with an intraarticular lesion (61 %).
Arthroscopy was performed in all secondary forms of Baker's cyst.
Postoperative complications were two reinterventions due to one hematoma and one effusion.
Patient's evaluation of operation result was "excellent" in 61 % and "good" in 39 % of cases.
All knee joints had a full range of motion.
There was only one case of a recurrent cyst.
The primary form of Baker's cyst has always to be extirpated, according to our clinical experience.
The extirpation of the secondary Baker's cyst and the relevance of arthroscopy and treatment of the basic disease have to be discussed.
In median avcuate ligament syndrome, compression of the celiac artery is caused by an abnormally low insertion of the median arcuate ligament in the presence of normally located celiac and superior mesenteric arteries.
A lot of controversy exists concerning the indication for operation and the best mode of treatment.
Depending on the presence and quality of collateral pathways, the symptoms vary considerably.
We report a rare case of arcuate ligament syndrome with two-vessel involvement.
In such cases surgical treatment seems to offer substantial benefit.
Usually transsection of the compressing arcuate ligament is sufficient.
Bypass procedures should remain limited to cases in which transsection does not enable a significant increase in splanchnic blood flow.
The microscopic examination of Giemsa-stained blood films for the diagnosis of malaria is a highly sensitive technique.
However, the expertise required is a major disadvantage.
Recently, methods not dependent on microscopy have become commercially available.
The use of an antigen-capture assay for the detection of histidine-rich protein 2, an antigen specific for Plasmodium falciparum, forms the basis of the ParaSight-F (Becton Dickinson) and the ICT Malaria Pf test (ICT Diagnostics).
Parasite lactate dehydrogenase is the basis of another immunographic dipstick assay developed by Flow Inc.
These currently available assays have been evaluated in a number of trials giving sensitivities and specificities of 90-100%.
A decreased sensitivity is found in cases with low parasitemia.
However, false-negative  results have also been reported in patients with high parasite densities.
Purpose: Discussion in the literature of peripheral nerve lesions after surgical treatment is based mainly on orthopedic surgery or on ischemic syndromes.
There is no information about the frequency of nerve lesions after revascularization of the lower limb.
Methods: Between 1992 and 1996, 436 patients underwent peripheral arterial revascularization, including 147 cases of deep revascularization, 127 supra-genicular femoro-popliteal bypasses, 116 infra-genicular femoro-popliteal bypasses and 56 femoro-crural bypasses.
Mean patient age was 70.5 +/- 5.8 years; 182 patients were female and 254 were male.
There was a 38% rate (166/436) of reoperation.
All patients were examined based on anamnestic information and a detailed clinical neurological investigation, including the methods of Weber and Moberg.
Results: We found eleven patients (4%) with peripheral nerve lesions after the primary operation.
After the reoperation 55 patients (33%) had nerve lesions.
Conclusions: Peripheral nerve lesions with sensory disturbance were present in 15% of our patients on discharge from hospital.
They had mainly dysesthesia and hypesthesia but no kind of motor dysfunction.
In our opinion, detailed preoperative information is very important because of the risk of sensitive nerve lesions.
Classic and HIV-associated Kaposi's sarcoma (KS) are predominantly found in male Caucasians.
It is unclear why KS is so rare in women.
At the Department of Dermatology, University of Frankfurt, epidemic KS was diagnosed in 299/751 (40%) male and 5/72 (18%) female HIV-infected patients.
To detect common parameters regarding immunodeficiency, hormonal disturbances, abnormalities in clinical course, or sexual practices, data of eight women with KS (five HIV+, three HIV-) were compared.
In HIV+ women KS is more aggressive than in HIV- women and more aggressive than in HIV+ men.
Early and frequent visceral involvement and no preference for the lower extremities are found.
Compared to HIV- women with KS, HIV+ women are generally younger (mean age 38 vs 71 years) and significantly immunodeficient (reduced absolute CD4 cell count and CD4/CD8 ratio).
All women with KS investigated for sexual hormones (7/8) showed abnormalities: 7/7 had low oestrogens, 4/6 low LH and 3/5 low progesterone.
Controls (n=11, HIV+ without KS) showed a clear trend for higher serum levels of sexual hormones, but the difference was not significant.
Although different reasons for low levels of oestrogens (drug abuse, marasmus, menopause) must be considered, the lack of oestrogens seems to be a common finding in HIV+ and HIV- women with KS.
There was no correlation between sexual practices (anal or oral-faecal contacts) and the manifestation or aggressiveness of KS.
The aim of the study was the assessment of left ventricular (LV) systolic function and left ventricular mass following aortic valve replacement (AVR) due to aortic valve stenosis as well as the influence of regression of LV hypertrophy in patients with normal and impaired LV systolic function prior to surgery.
74 patients with severe aortic valve stenosis (29 female, 45 male, mean age 66  +/-  18 years) were divided into 2 groups according to LV ejection fraction (EF): Group 1 with EF > 50% (n = 40); Group 2 with EF <= 50% (n = 34).
Furthermore, patients were differentiated into a group A without (n = 53) and a group B with aortic regurgitation (<= II °, n = 21).
All patients were examined by transthoracic echocardiography before and 1 month after surgery.
There was a significant decrease of LV enddiastolic and endsystolic valume indices following AVR in group 2 and group B.
Patients with preoperatively lower EF (group 2) showed an increase in LV ejection fraction from 39  +/-  10% before AVR to 47  +/-  11% after AVR (p < 0.001), whereas patients with preoperative normal EF (group 1) showed a significant decrease in EF (from 62  +/-  8% to 57  +/-  10%, p < 0.05).
Also patients with combined aortic valve disease before AVR had an increase of EF after surgery (from 45 %plusmn; 14% to 56  +/-  14%, p < 0.03).
There were significant decreases of interventricular septum thickness and LV posterior wall thickness in group 1 and group A, whereas a significant decrease of LV anddiastolic diameter index was noted only in group B.
Improvement of the NYHA functional class could be demonstrated in group 2 from 2.8  +/-  0.7 before to 2.2  +/-  0.6 after AVR, as well as in group B from 2.9  +/-  0.7 before to 1.9  +/-  0.7 after surgery.
In conclusion, patients with impaired LV function or combined aortic valve disease showed a significant improvement of left ventricular systolic function after AVR, while patients with normal LV function presented a slight decrease of EF.
There was a significant regression of left ventricular muscle mass in all groups independent of the left ventricular functional status.
Cardiomyocytes lose the ability to proliferate after birth.
Subsequently, irreversible cellular damage, e.g., during myocardial infarction, causes loss of functional properties and cell replacement by fibrotic tissue.
It is, therefore, not surprising that cell replacement strategies such as cardiomyocyte transplantation in damaged myocardium or scar tissue has gained widespread interest.
In other species such as mice, rats, and dogs, the technical feasibility of skeletal myoblast-, satellite cell-, and fetal cardiomyocyte engraftment into normal and diseased myocardium has been demonstrated by simple injection methods.
Repeatedly, it has been shown that transplanted cells may survive for weeks within host myocardium and build intercellular connections such as grap junctions and desmosomes.
In contrast, grafthost connections have not, as yet, been convincingly demonstrated.
Hypothetically, cell transplants might exhibit the following functional properties: stabilization of diseased tissue to prevent structural remodeling; carrier for recombinant proteins, growth factors or drugs to induce molecular alterations of host myocardium; and improvement of regional and global myocardial function due to active contractility.
However, clear evidence of coordinated contractility of transplanted cells, and, thus, of a clinically relevant therapeutical use of cardiomyocyte transplantation as a replacement strategy for damaged host cardiac cells, remains to be demonstrated.
Concomitant with advances in medicine, involving the development and use of antibiotics, immunosuppressive drugs, organ / stem cell transplantation and pre-existing illnesses such as AIDS, the frequency of fungal infection has increased dramatically.
These factors determine the susceptibility of the lung for an acute or chronic course of disease.
Purpose: We evaluated the speed of sound (SOS) and broadband ultrasound attenuation (BUA) at the os calcis as an indicator of osteoporosis and observed the age-related changes in ultrasound values in normal women.
Materials and methods: BUA and SOS were measured in 236 women using the "Achilles" densitometer (Lunar, Madison, Ohio).
From the BUA and SOS values the BUA/SOS Index ("Stiffness" Index) is calculated.
We investigated 55 female patients with osteoporosis (aged 43-85 years) and 181 healthy women (aged 20-80 years).
Results: Ultrasound values for women with osteoporosis were significantly lower than those for the normal control group.
The Z-score compared with young normals was higher for the BUA/SOS Index (-3.1) than for BUA (-2.5) and SOS (-3.0).
At a BUA/SOS Index of 68 the sensitivity was 85 %, and the specificity was 77 % for patients with osteoporotic fractures.
We found a significant decline with age in SOS (r = -0.55), BUA (r = -0.50) and BUA/SOS Index (r = -0.57).
Conclusion: Ultrasound bone densitometry at the os calcis can be used as a screening test in the diagnosis of osteoporosis.
A treatment procedure requires the consent of the patient, but this is legally effective only if he is capable of giving his consent and can be informed accordingly.
Because of demographic development and the progress of medicine, the number of patients who are not able to give their consent is increasing.
In practice, we make do with the presumed consent of the patient or, for procedures that can wait, with the consent of legitimate family members.
An initiative action is suggested by physicians and hospitals that should reduce this gray zone and the forensic risks drastically.
A number of studies has shown a significant relationship between life events/life conditions and depression.
However, there is only a small number of studies investigating the effect of life events/life conditions in patients with severe depression from the endogenous subtype.
The present study examines the significance of the patients' life events/life conditions for the two year outcome of the illness in a prospective study with assessments every three months.
Patients are compared to healthy controls with regard to the period three months prior to the admission to the hospital at the index episode.
The results confirm the importance of life events and life conditions for the long term outcome of depressed patients with endogenous subtype respectively severe major depression in-patients.
Relapsers show considerably more undesirable life conditions than non-relapsers three to six months prior to their relapse.
Depressed patients indicate significantly more undesirable life events and life conditions and fewer desirable life conditions in comparison to the control group for the time span three months prior to their hospitalisation.
Since the availability of protease inhibitors in 1997, there has been a great change in antiretroviral therapy but also new long term side effects have emerged, mainly metabolic changes such as hypertriglyceridemia, hypercholesterinemia and hyperglycemia.
Besides, fat redistribution has been observed.
Fat wastes in the face and limbs but accumulates in the adipose tissue of the dorsocervical and abdominal region and the breasts.
The mechanism of these changes remains unclear.
For therapy a protease inhibitor free therapy or lipid lowering drugs may be tried.
29 of our 224 patients developed lipodystrophy.
27 of these patients had been treated with a protease inhibitor (17 patients with indinavir); 2 of the patients had never received protease inhibitors.
Background: The Low-Vision-Enhancement-System (LVESR) is the first binocular optoelectronic rehabilitation device with variable focus distance.
DNA-cytophotometry is one of the methods that may contribute to a more precise evaluation of the biological behaviour of tumours in addition to the WHO-classification.
In this study 121 tumour specimens of 50 patients suffering from gliomas with one or up to three recurrencies were investigated.
In all cases the histological type and WHO-grade and the Ki-67/MIB1 labeling index were determined.
DNA cytophotometry was performed after single cell preparation on Feulgen-stained preparations, and the following parameters were calculated: stemline ploidy, 5c-exceeding rate, and 2c-deviation index.
There is a world-wide renaissance of neurosurgical treatments of Parkinson's disease (PD), based on substantial progress in basic sciences.
A model of parallel motor circuitry has identified potential targets for lesioning by clarifying the pathophysiological role of the basal ganglia in PD.
The internal globus pallidus (Gpi) is an essential player as it connects to thalamocortical projections and can be disinhibited by overactivity of the nucleus subthalamicus (Nst).
Lesioning of these targets has been successful in MPTP damaged primates.
There is clinical use of destructive as well as restorative and stimulative technics.
Pallidotomy and thalamatomy have evolved by the use of better neuroradiological and electrophysiological targeting.
The first technic is used for treatment of rigidity, hypokinesia and dyskinesias, the latter one has proven to be efficient for tremor.
Dopaminergic reinnervation and increased dopaminergic output of the striatum has only been seen after transplantation of fetal cells; this method however carries immunological and ethical problems.
The continuous high frequency stimulation of basal ganglia is the newest technic; it is highly adaptable to the patient's need and carries a low morbidity profile.
Thalamic stimulation is used for the treatment of tremor.
The stimulation of Nst and Gpi are proposed for dyskinesias and on/off phenomena.
Animal research further focuses on xenotransplantation and implantation of genetically transformed cells or pluripotent precursor cells.
- In summary neurosurgical procedures seem to be verey promising; however longterm comparison studies are needed to define the best (combination) treatment(s) for the future.
Concepts of documentation rely not only on the contents required and technical demands, but the procedures covered and in medical applications especially security aspects are also matters of critical concern.
Even though the need for effective documentation (i.e., adequate in content, availability, feasibility and easy to retrieve analysis) is not a question, tasks and aims (for example, quality of patient care) deserve attention and establishing efforts have to be analyzed regarding their structural and personal prerequisites and implications before particular tools for documentation can be developed.
The Medtronic Thera/Thera-i (and Kappa 400) pacemakers utilize a mode switching algorithm that switches from the DDD/R mode to the DDIR mode in the presence on an atrial tachyarrhythmia.
To accomplish this, the pacemaker keeps track of a mean atrial rate (MAR) which is a weighted index of the atrial rate.
Once the MAR is greater than the programmed mode switch rate the pacemaker mode switches to the nontracking mode.
Because the algorithm weights faster atrial rates more heavily than slow atrial rates, the algorithm is sensitive to a wide variety of atrial tachyarrhythmias, including those with varying amplitudes.
Additionally, the algorithm provides a long PVARP and a rate adaptive (RA) AV interval.
These not only help ensure that a wide range of atrial rates will be detected, but may also limit the time the patient tracks at the upper rate before mode switching.
In order to assess the effectiveness of the algorithm, the Thera-i provides detailed diagnostics which provide information on the date, time, duration, and rate of the mode switch episodes.
Additionally, more detailed beat-to-beat information is provided for each episode which can help determine its appropriateness and can assist in making programming changes.
There is a lot of information in the literature about psychological disturbances in somatic diseases.
For dermatological patients such data are not available.
In early spring 1998 we studied the psychological changes in 247 hospitalized patients in the dermatological department of the Ruhr University Bochum.
We used the German version of the internationally accepted Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale.
We found the prevalance of psychological alterations ranged between 25,9% and 31%.
The prevalence of psychological disturbances was a little higher than that seen in oncological, cardiological or neurological patient populations.
Surprisingly skin cancer patients were less affected than patients with chronic inflammatory or angiological diseases.
These results underline the necessity of improved psychological therapeutical strategies which must be standardized and evaluated.
In an analysis of 3,838 restrained car drivers, the proportion of acceleration related injury of the cervical spine increased from under 10 % in 1985 to over 30 % in 1997.
These injuries occurred mainly in the case of head-on or multiple collisions.
Letters were sent to 1,136 of the injured persons, and of the 138 patients who returned the questionnaires, 121 (88 %) were still suffering from their symptoms.
It was a question of pain (74 %), tension (6 %) and stiffness (5 %) in the head (27 %), neck (55 %) and shoulder (8 %) area.
The duration of the complaints was the longest after multiple collisions.
In addition to a slight influence of the accompanying injuries on the duration of complaints, the individual constitution seems to be an important determining factor.
In order to resolve the difficulties of conducting of this retrospective study, prospective studies are necessary which include documentation of diagnosis, treatment protocols, duration and type of complaints.
Large B-cell neoplasms represent one of the most frequent groups of non-Hodgkin-lymphomas (30-40%).
They are characterised by an aggressive clinical course.
These lymphomas may evolve either de novo or secondary during the course of a less aggressive lymphoma.
In addition to primary nodal, a primary extranodal manifestation is rather common.
The neoplastic cells, even within one given case, show a broad morphological spectrum.
Several findings of the last two decades have revealed that the large B-cell lymphomas represent an inhomogeneous group.
This fact has been taken into account by the new WHO classification of malignant lymphomas.
There are two groups identified, that of the variants and that of the subtypes.
The various variants (centroblastic, immunoblastic, anaplastic, T-cell/histiocyte-rich) correspond to lymphomas without reproducible discriminating criteria lacking characteristic clinical, immunophenotypical and genetic findings.
In contrast, the primary mediastinal, the intravascular, the primary effusion and primary central nervous system lymphomas represent distinct disease entities.
A number of recently described large cell lymphoma types, i. e. plasmablastic, ALK-positive and primary gastric, are included in the classification, their designation as distinct entities is still under discussion.
In the presented study, knee joint proprioception of 43 patients with a patellar pain syndrome of the knee joint was evaluated.
In a control group, the proprioception of 30 healthy volunteers with clinical and anamnestic inconspicous knee joints was examined.
We tested the proprioceptive capability of the subjects with a passive angle reproduction test.
Additionally, all knee joints were measured with and without an elastic knee bandage.
The patient group showed significant deterioration of angle reproduction capability (13.2  °  +/-  6.1  °) compared to the control group (7.8  °  +/-  2.8  °).
After applying an elastic knee bandage, the angle reproduction capability significantly improved to 9.2  °  +/-  4.5  °.
Proprioception of the contralateral, noninvolved knee joint in the patients (11.6  °  +/-  6.3  °) was worse compared to the control group.
Applying an elastic knee bandage did not significantly improve the proprioception of the uninjured knee joint.
Atrial fibrillation is the most commonly encountered sustained arrhythmia in men.
It is associated with a two-fold mortality risk and an increased cost for health care providers.
The relative inefficacy and the risks of pharmacologic approaches to atrial fibrillation therapy have contributed to increasing efforts to address atrial fibrillation with curative ablative strategies.
Ablation approaches for atrial fibrillation focus on two alternate strategies: ablation of the substrate for initiation and ablation of the substrate for maintenance of atrial fibrillation.
It has been demonstrated that atrial fibrillation may be initiated by repetitive atrial premature beats originating from a single focus.
These ectopic foci can be mapped and ablated, thereby removing the substrate for initiation of atrial fibrillation.
Most often, these atrial premature beats arise from the pulmonary veins.
A challenge in trying to ablate the trigger is actually having enough spontaneous activity from the said focus throughout the electrophysiologic study.
To sidestep the need of mapping, pure anatomic approaches are currently under investigation to electrically isolate the pulmonary veins from the atrial myocardium by circumferential lesions.
In patients without a defined trigger for atrial fibrillation, efforts were made to ablate the substrate for maintenance of atrial fibrillation.
Strong evidence exists that atrial fibrillation is the result of multiple coexisting reentrant wavelets requiring a critical myocardial mass to perpetuate.
Several working groups demonstrated that intraoperative compartmentalization of the myocardial tissue by surgical incisions or radiofrequency pulses is highly effective in preventing atrial fibrillation.
Currently, attempts were made to reproduce the surgical technique using transveneous, catheter-based approaches.
Though our knowledge of ablation techniques and technical prerequisites is continuously increasing, the difficulty to produce complete linear lesions in the left atrium and local thrombus formation at the ablation line are problems that are still not solved.
Using a time-budget method in a 3 year longitudinal study with a control group design, substantial reductions in the engagement of non-obligatory instrumental, social, and leisure activities could be found in a group of mildly to moderately demented patients.
Controlling these changes for differences in baseline paramters, the dementia-specific reduction was about 1,5 hours compared to a non-psychiatric control group.
These clinically relevant changes in activity levels underscore the importance of these activity domains with regard to the development of diagnostically useful indicators at the early stages of dementia.
Time-budget methods seem to be particularly useful to close the diagnostic gap with regard to the assessment of everyday competence indicators especially at early stages of the dementia illness.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a disease with different etiological, morphological, functional, clinical and therapeutic aspects.
Recent investigations indicate that HCM is considerably widespread in the population (1:500).
The causes seem to generate from familial or sporadic abnormalities (mutations).
Depending on the clinical aspect, the complaints, and on the basis of morphologic and hemodynamic investigational results, we mainly have to consider two types of medical and surgical management.
Atrial fibrillation is in 20-50% the most frequent dysrhythmia after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) and a possible cause for hemodynamical complications and prolongation off the medical treatment in patients.
Therefore, the effect of -blocking with metoprolol for prevention of supraventricular arrhythmias (SVA) was investigated in a prospective and randomized trial.
200 patients after CABG were randomized in a drug and control group (average age 63.2 years, 154 male, 46 female).
Patients of the drug group (n=100) were treated with metoprolol (1mg/kg/BW) beginning on day one after operation, whereas patients of the control group (n=100) received therapy only in case of occurrence of atrial fibrillaton.
ECG, blood pressure, and electrolyte concentrations were measured regulary until the tenth day after surgery.
Reasons for exclusion were an ejection fraction (< 30%, SA- and AV-block or simultaneous application of epinephrine and metoprolol.
There were no significant differences between the patients of drug and control group with respect to age, sex ejection fraction, previous medication, number and type of bypass grafts, cardiopulmonary bypass time, and perioperative ischemic events.
However, a statistically significant difference was seen in the occurrence of supraventricular arrhythmias in both groups, 4 patients of the therapy group (4%) in contrast to 37 patients of the control (37%) developed supraventricular arrhythmias during the postoperative observation period (p<0.0001).
Both groups differed in total time of hospital stay by 1.5 days (control group: 9.83 +/- 2.88 days; drug group: 8.42 +/- 2.81 days), which was statistically significant (p<0.05).
All patients of the drug group could be discharged with a stable sinusrhythm, whereas 7 patients of the control group were discharged with persistent atrial fibrillation.
The difference was statistically significant as well (p<0.01).
Neither typical side effects of metoprolol, nor AV-blocks, bradycardia (f<60/min) or symptoms of low blood pressure could be observed.
The conclusion of this trial is a recommendation for a preventive application of 50mg metoprolol/day after coronary artery bypass surgery, which can reduce the incidence of SVA as well as the hospital stay statistically significant.
Especially by using the "Functional Muscular Diagnostics" described by Janda specific muscular imbalances can be found.
The method is easy to apply and should be used during and before the championship season.
Background: Angiotensin converting  enzyme-inhibitors (ACE-inhibitors) alter the function of the renin-angiotensin-aldesterone-system, which regulates the angiotensin II synthesis.
Angiotensine II is known to be a potent vasoconstrictor.
ACE-inhibitors are used as a standard treatment of arterial hypertension concerning the WHO-guidelines.
The experiences concerning the use of ACE-inhibitors in pediatric patients are  limited.
The frequency of side-effects are not known on a sufficient scientific basis.
Evoked potentials (EP) are a valuable tool when assessment of neurocritical care patients is impaired by loss of consciousness and lack of co-operation.
Different modalities of short latency EP can be applied to evaluate sensory, auditory and visual systems.
In this review we discuss EP studies in patients with thrombosis of basilar artery, space occupying cerebellar infarction and supratentorial mass lesions of different aetiology.
Paclitaxel, a potent anti-tumor agent, shifts the cytoskeleton equilibrium towards assembly of altered and extraordinarily stable microtubules.
These cellular modifications lead to reduced proliferation, migration, and signal transduction.
It is highly lipophilic, which promotes a rapid cellular uptake, and has a long-lasting effect in the cell due to the structural alteration of the cytoskeleton.
This makes paclitaxel a promising candidate for local drug delivery intended to address the proliferative and migratory processes involved in restenosis.
In this article, results of our in vitro and in vivo studies with paclitaxel are presented.
Cell culture experiments with monocultures of human arterial smooth muscle cells as well as cocultures with human endothelial cells showed that paclitaxel leads to an almost complete growth inhibition within a dose range of 1.0-10.0µmol/l, even after a short (20 min) single dose application.
The comparison of an active, semi-active, and passive delivery system (porous balloon, microporous balloon, and double balloon) favored the double balloon for the following in vivo experiments.
Tubulin staining and electron microscopy enabled visualization of paclitaxel-induced vessel wall alterations.
In the rabbit model, locally delivered paclitaxel resulted in reduced neointima formation and enlargement in vessel size; in the pig model, however, after stenting, this inhibition was not significant.
Both reduced proliferation and enlargement in vessel size contribute to a preservation of vessel shape and are likely to be caused by a structural alteration of the cytoskeleton, which is also supported by vascular contraction force experiments.
Atopic eczema is one of the most frequent dermatological diseases, with a still increasing incidence.
Although its etiopathogenesis is still not completely understood, a variety of triggering factors are known.
The following case report describes the clinical course of atopic dermatitis in a 2-year-old boy in whom both IgE-mediated allergic reactions and psychological factors were involved in triggering and maintenance of skin lesions.
This demonstrates how important both dermatological therapy and close cooperation with the field of psychosomatic medicine can be.
Identity development in adolescence may act as stressor triggering juvenile psychotic episodes.
A model is being presented stating that self development in subjects with high vulnerability for psychosis leads to the establishment of an "imaginary self" consisting of phantasies and fictions without taking into account facts and social realities.
The "imaginary self" stabilizes irritating self deficiencies, thus leading to a vulnerability for depersonalisation and identity diffusion during actual turmoils of adaptation.
Biomaterials are defined as non-living materials which are used in interaction with biological systems.
Especially in the field of urology, biomaterials are applied in urinary diversion, urinary incontinence, erectile dysfunction, and as cosmetic prostheses.
Biomaterial-tissue interaction is caused by the physical and chemical characteristics of the biomaterial, its degradation, and the resulting protein denaturation.
General requirements include biocompatibility and functionality and the avoidance of carcinogenic, mutagenic, toxic, and allergic reactions.
This ist most important when there is permanent contact between urine and epithelial tissue, which may lead to biofilminfection and incrustation.
Continuous modification of known materials, inauguration of new materials, as well as the possibilities of tissue engineering will determine their development in the years to come.
Hitherto the question of an indication for psychoanalytic group psychotherapy has not been clarified sufficiently.
In this paper, under the premise, that psychoanalytic group psychotherapy is a treatment mode in its own right, the issue is investigated which patients might best profit from the group treatment method.
It is pointed out that the group process itself contains a variety of therapeutic treatment factors which cannot be facilitated through psychoanalytic treatment of just one patient.
First, a series of diagnostic, structural, motivational and cognitive indication criteria are discussed.
Second, the moments of a capacity for cohesion and aspects of social relatedness are considered as helpful tools for a formulation of an indication.
As cohesion - according to group treatment outcome research results - has to be viewed as correspondent to the helpful therapeutic alliance, in the context of group psychotherapy, the quest for indication is inextricably linked to patient selection and setting conditions.
The conclusion is that psychoanalytic group psychotherapy, would preferably be indicated for those patients who suffer from constraints of emotional competence as stemming from developmental deficits.
Purpose: To evaluate method- and user effects as well as the required time in the determination of left- and right ventricular ejection fractions in comparing manual and semiautomatic border detection of the endocardium.
The diagnosis of urinary tract infection in renal transplant patients is important because unrecognized bacterial infection may lead - in the worst case - to graft loss.
Between January 1995 and January 1997, we therefore obtained bladder catheter urine samples in 31 female allograft recipients when voided urine samples repeatedly showed pyuria (>=10 WC per microscope field (x40)) and significant bacteriuria (>=;105/ml) combined with vaginal contamination (plenty of squamous epithelial cells, mixed bacterial growth).
Results: In 55 % (17/31), diagnosis of urinary tract infection was confirmed by single bladder catheterization; in 26 % (8/31), urinary tract infection could be excluded, and in 19 % (6/31), bladder colonization without pyuria was found.
Thus, 45 % of the patients with abnormal voided urine samples did not need antimicrobials.
After single dose antibiotic therapy with 500 mg Ciprofloxacin, given immediately after catheterization, no infectious complications occurred.
Diagnostic single bladder catheterization is a simple, safe and - compared to suprapubic aspiration - barely invasive method for the diagnosis or exclusion of urinary tract infection in female renal transplant patients with higher risk for complications due to an acute bladder infection and non-conclusive voided urine samples.
Most people with the Metabolic Syndrome die from thrombotic complications superimposed to degenerative arterial vascular lesions, mostly myocardial infarction.
Type-2-Diabetes is a risk factor per se for such complications, but often clusters with dyslipoproteinemia, hypertension and obesity.
This is referred to as "Metabolic Syndrome" and often operates on a genetically programmed susceptibility which accelerates the pathogenesis of coronary artery disease in front of a much wider diabetes specific cardiopathy.
From a pathophysiological point of view none of these associated risk factors explains the pathogenetic series of events leading to the precipitation of an occlusive thrombus at sites of complicated coronary plaques.
In patients with the Metabolic Syndrome the coagulation system is switched towards a prethrombotic state, involving increased plasmatic coagulation, diminished fibrinolysis, decreased endothelial thromboresistance and predominantly platelet hyperreactivity ("diabetic thrombocytopathy").
Some of these factors are associated with an increased coronary risk (e.g.
fibrinogen, PAI-1, platelets), but are also directly linked to the pathogenesis of "atherothrombosis".
Altered cardiac remodelling together with adhesion and coagulation mechanisms appears suitable to explain decreased functional performance of infarcted organs, decreased success of acute (reduced fibrinolytic response, no reflow phenomenon) and longterm intervention strategies for vessel patency (PTCA, CABG) in Diabetes.
Glucose adjustment alone will not adequately neutralize these complex mechanisms, but in the situation of myocardial infarction eumetabolization with parenteral glucose-insulin-potassium infusion appears mandatory similar to non-diabetics.
On the longterm a multidimensional interventional repertoire is required particularly in patients with the Metabolic Syndrome including antihypertensive, antidyslipoproteinemic and antithrombotic drugs, customized according to the individual patients needs as assessed by early diagnostic measures ("early secondary prevention").
The indication for operative treatment in spondylolisthesis results from pain, progressive sliding and, in up to 60 % of the patients with progressive dislocation, from radicular malfunction.
The posterolateral fusion in situ is a safe procedure, but the deformation remains and in spondyloptosis plastic deformation of the fusion mass can lead to further dislocation.
With the external fixator as an instrument for reduction and the internal fixator for stabilization the reduction of even serious spondyloptosis and the recovery of a normal spine alignement and posture is possible, with an acceptable neurological risk.
Therefore a concept of treatment is suggested, which as a rule is aiming at the anatomical reduction of the dislocated vertrebra beside stabilization and nerveroot decompression.
Depending on the extent of the slip, reduction and stabilization is to be performed in one, two or three stages.
An anterior or posterior fusion is sufficient in grade I dislocation.
In grade II-V a combined posterior and anterior surgical proceedure is recommended.
Objectives: This study was conducted to evaluate a modified technique of interskalene brachial plexus anaesthesia (ISB) and postoperative catheter analgesia for shoulder surgery.
The original method described by Winnie bears some rare but life-threatening complications (inadvertent subarachnoid or intra-arterial injection, pneumothorax).
Objectives: Due to its low solubility and negligible metabolism, desflurane is assumed to be especially suitable for application by low-flow anaesthetic techniques.
The aim of this clinical investigation was the development of a standardised dosing scheme for low-flow and minimal-flow desflurane anaesthesia.
Methods: One hundred six ASA status I-II patients were assigned to six groups according to the duration of the initial high-flow phase, fresh gas flow, and fresh-gas desflurane concentration.
The median age, height, body weight, and constitution of the groups was comparable.
After an initial high-flow phase using 4.4 l/min, the fresh gas flow was reduced to 0.5 l/min (minimal-flow anaesthesia) or 1.0 l/min (low-flow anaesthesia).
Inspired nitrous oxide concentrations were maintained at 60% to 70%.
Using different standardised schemes of vaporizer settings, inspired desflurane concentrations were applied in the range from 3.4% to 8.7%, i.e., between 1 and 1.5 MAC.
Inspired and expired desflurane concentrations were measured continuously by the side-stream technique and recorded on-line.
Venous blood samples were taken immediately prior to induction and 45 min after flow reduction for measurement of carboxyhaemoglobin (COHb) concentration).
Results: In the 10- to 15-min initial phase during which a high fresh gas flow of 4.4 l/min was used, the inspired desflurane concentration reached values in the range of 90%-95% of the fresh gas concentration.
In low-flow anaesthesia this concentration could be maintained without any alteration of the vaporizer setting, whereas in minimal-flow anaesthesia with flow reduction the fresh gas concentration had to be increased by 1% to 2%: The quotient calculated by division of the inspired desflurane concentration by its fresh gas concentration (Q=CI/CF) ranges between 0.65 and 0.75 in minimal-flow and between 0.80 and 0.85 in low-flow anaesthesia.
If use was made of the wide output range of the desflurane vaporizer, the inspired concentration could be increased rapidly by about 5% in 8 min, although the flow was kept constant at 0.5 l/min.
Compared with its value prior to induction (2.13 +/- 1.05%), the COHb concentration decreased statistically significantly by about 0.7% during the 1st hour of minimal-flow anaesthesia (1.42 +/- 1.01%).
In no case was a COHb concentration observed that exceeded threatening or even toxic values, although the soda lime was changed routinely only once a week.
Conclusions: The pharmacokinetic properties of desflurane, resulting in especially low individual uptake, and the wide output range of the vaporizer facilitate the use of low-flow anaesthetic techniques in routine clinical practice.
Even in minimal-flow anaesthesia, the duration of the initial high-flow phase can be shortened to min.
If the flow is reduced to 1 l/min, the inspired desflurane concentration achieved in the initial high-flow phase can be maintained without any alteration of the vaporizer setting.
In minimal-flow anaesthesia, however, with flow reduction to 0.5 l/min, the fresh gas concentration has to be increased to a value 1%-2% higher than the inspired nominal value.
Due to the wide dialling range of the desflurane vaporizer, the amount of vapour delivered into the breathing system can be increased to about 110 ml/min even at a flow of 0.5 l/min.
The large amount of agent that can be delivered into the system even under low-flow conditions, together with the very low individual uptake, results in a time-constant that is sufficiently short for the clinically required rapid increase in inspired desflurane concentrations.
The short time-constant of low-flow desflurane anaesthesia improves the control of the anaesthetic concentration.
If all measures are taken to safely avoid inadvertent drying out of the soda lime, there is no evidence that low-flow anaesthesia with desflurane is liable to increase the risk of accidental ca
Arterial port systems are frequently used in the adjuvant and palliative therapy of colorectal hepatic metastasis.
Specific complications are rarely documented in literature.
The perforation of an arterial Port-a-cath followed by duodenal fistula is an uncommon complication of regional hepatic chemotherapy.
Besides systemic disorders caused by the chemotherapeutic agents, such as vomiting, sickness, or gastritis and duodenitis, gastroduodenal ulcers can occur as a local complication of treatment.
Thrombosis of the hepatic artery or occlusion of the port device are the most common reasons for withdrawal of treatment in our series.
Based on our experience and the case report of a duodenal fistula we recommend angiography of the port system prior to each cycle of chemotherapy.
Background: Coenesthesias can be defined as disorders of body perception or body hallucinations, projected in different parts of the body.
Patients complain of intractable pain or dysesthesia.
These symptoms are reported even from organs where we usually have no perception.
Coenesthesia must be regarded as a symptom that can be observed in various psychiatric diseases, e.g., schizophrenia.
However, in rare cases coenesthesias can be documented in neurological diseases, e.g., intracranial tumors or infections.
Therefore, accurate assessment of possible differential diagnoses is important.
In late stages, coenesthesias can easily be recognized because of their "bizarre" character.
In early stages, however, patients often complain of intractable, unlocalizable burning pain.
They frequently undergo operations because of their great suffering.
The drug treatment of first choice is neuroleptics, but the results are unpredictable.
Question: What risks do different forms of immunosuppression (azathioprine, Cyclosporin, azathioprine/Cyclosporin plus steroids) represent in pregnancy for the mother and fetus after kidney transplantation?
Retrospective analysis of 40 pregnancies and deliveries.
Investigation of abortion -, premature birth rate, fetal retardation, malformation, hospitalization, modus of labour, birth weight, gestational age, perinatal mortality, hypertonia, preeclampsia, anemia, kidney function, rejection crisis, mechanical compression, kidney function after 1 and 5 years postpartum.
Recommendation guideline: preconceptional time (contraception) and intensive care in pregnancy.
The risk of pregnancy is justified if the presuppositions are correct and the woman would urgently like to have a child.
Studies on the everyday life of the elderly often deal with visible behavior.
In this study, the subjective experience of the everyday living environment was investigated, paying special consideration to the role of mobility impairment.
Two approaches, one oriented toward the subject's experience of the home environment, another oriented toward the environmental specifics of the individual's favorite place, were employed.
Is the experience of living at home different for individuals with various levelsults were found in the experience of cognitive, biographical, and spatial dimensions of the living environment.
Similarities were found in the experience of emotional, social, and behavioral dimensions of one's home.
Competence loss played an important role in how the subjects experienced living at home, yet even the mobility impaired experienced their home as a environment which could be shaped.
The environment-oriented approach showed that the favorite place of mobility impaired persons was characterized by higher spatial density.
Finally, an examination of four home environment profiles using cluster analysis illustrated the connection between both person- and environment-oriented approaches and offered insights into a transactional perspective of person and environment.
Even though the subjective experience of one's home environment is not easily quantifiable in terms of maintaining everyday competence, it nonetheless imparts meaning to the elderly person's daily life.
The main advantage of the bilateral medial rectus faden operation (posterior fixation suture) for the treatment of essential infantile esotropia is the low occurrence of delayed consecutive exotropia.
Nevertheless, this unwanted complication also occasionally occurs after a faden operation.
We report the rare development of a myoepithelial carcinoma in a pleomorphic adenoma involving the minor salivary glands in the buccal mucosa of a 78-year-old female.
Tumor presented as a small asymptomatic left buccal mass.
The initial dominant component of the neoplasm was a pleomorphic adenoma, while the minor component was a myoepithelial carcinoma.
Recurrences of tumor after 2 and then 5 years were excised.
Histopathological examination of the last tissue removed showed a pure myoepithelial carcinoma of the minor salivary glands without evidence for a pleomorphic adenoma.
The clinical features, therapy, diagnosis, histopathology and literature are reviewed.
The purpose of this prospective study was to determine concomittant lesions of glenohumeral dislocation and their correlation with the outcome, to determine the influence of various stabilizing operation techniques on the outcome.
106 shoulders [104 patients, 81 men, 23 women, mean age 36 (16-83) years] operated because of shoulder instability after at minimum one shoulder luxation between 1988 to 1995 were evaluated 3 years (0.8-8 years) postoperatively using Constant score.
Preoperative arthroscopy was performed to document intraarticular lesions.
There were 7 reluxations (5 because of a new accident), mostly after Putti-Platt procedures.
The average modified Constant Score was 66 (10-85) points (maximum 85).
29 patients (27%) had less than 60 points, mostly because of pain and restriction of function, and were evaluated as poor.
Lesions of rotator cuff, long biceps tendon and subscapularis tendon had a bad prognosis.
The severity of arthroscopically found lesions correlated with the outcome.
Operations with shortening of subscapularis tendon or using a bone graft gave bad results.
Anatomic reconstruction of the labrum-ligament complex in combination with a plasty of the extended capsule gave best results.
Preoperative arthroscopy can determine the extent of different lesions after shoulder luxation which influence the outcome and is useful to select the optimal operation technique.
Prenatal determination of fetal blood groups by DNA amplification today is possible for Rhesus D, eE, cC, Kell (K1/2), Duffy (Fya/b) and Kidd (Jka/b).
Current assays using multiplex PCR and at least two specific primers as well as an intern control offer a diagnostic power of more than 99%.
In all pregnancies complicated by irregular blood group antibodies, blood group typing in amniotic fluid allows to reduce the number of invasive procedures.
PCR typing is recommended in all cases with a heterozygous father and an increased antibody level or suspicious findings during ultrasound evaluation.
Adjuvant therapy with interferon for malignant melanoma causes neurotoxic side effects such as depression.
The biochemical mechanisms are unknown.
We report two cases with both depression and amnesia.
In one case, attempted suicide was a companied by 7 h of amnesia.
The diagnostic classification and possible explanations for the amnesia secondary to interferon therapy are reviewed.
Molecular and epidemiological studies have confirmed that human pathogenic papillomaviruses (HPV)types 16 and 18 are causally involved in the developement of carcinoma of the cervix.
This statement is also true, albeit with reservations as yet, of other so-called high-risk HPV types, such as HPV 31, 33, 35, 39, 45, 51, 52, 56 and 58.
Around 500,000 women throughout the world become ill with carcinoma of the cervix every year, and 1-4% of all younger women have a precancer of the cervix uteri.
This knowledge of the viral origin of anogenital neoplasms has not yet been exploited for primary and secondary prevention of these illnesses, however.
This is mainly because infection with genital HPV types is very prevalent in young women but seldom leads to carcinoma.
In this review, therefore, the most important epidemiological data available on cervical carcinoma and its preliminary stages are analysed with reference to an association with HPV.
In addition, the molecular biological data on HPV as it relates to anogenital carcinogenesis are presented.
In conclusion, the significance of HPV for the prevention of carcinoma of the cervix is discussed.
We report the case of a 43-year-old woman who had a cardiogenic shock due to an acute inferior myocardial infarction.
Her husband and a general practitioner living in the neighborhood initially performed cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
A prehospital emergency physician found ventricular fibrillation when he arrived after 20 minutes.
It was impossible to achieve stable rhythm by 42 attemps of defibrillation.
Therefore, the patient was carried to our clinic under ongoing cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
A cardiologist was informed with radio signal.
Percutaneous cardiopulmonary support (pCPS) was implanted in the emergency department after 100 minutes of cardiac arrest.
After stabilizing the hemodynamic situation by pCPS (4-5 l/min) it was possible to transfer the patient to the catheterization laboratory.
Angiography revealed proximal occlusion of a dominant right coronary artery.
After successful angioplasty it was possible to reestablish stable sinus rhythm by single defibrillation.
By use of intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) the flow rate of pCPS was reduced every two hours.
After 10 hours of support pCPS was explaned.
IABP was needed for three days.
The patient was discharged from hospital without any relevant neurological deficits after nine weeks.
By using pCPS it is possible to stabilize the patient's hemodynamic situation and to perform diagnostic and therapeutic procedures if other means of resuscitation do not suffice.
The use of pCPS in resuscitation is indicated in circulatory arrest if further therapeutic options seem promising.
Defects of the frontoorbital complex subsequent to extensive tumor surgery or severe trauma often result in aesthetic and functional disharmonies.
The long-term results of rehabilitation related to different materials and techniques are the subject of this study.
From 1974 to 1996 altogether 127 patients with bony defects of the orbit and/or the skull base underwent surgery.
All patients' data were documented prospectively from 1984 onwards.
The results following reconstruction with autologous calvarian transplants in 52 patients were compared to those of a control group which received iliac bone or PMMA implants.
Eighty-one bony defects (64%) resulted from tumor resection; 37 patients (29%) suffered from the effects of trauma.
In 67 cases (53%) reconstruction was performed primarily, in 51 cases (40%) secondarily.
Free or pedicled soft-tissue transplants were necessary in order to separate the orbit and the neurocranium in 26% of the defects.
On the other hand, small, isolated defects of the orbital roof (7%) were left without any reconstructive procedure.
Contrary to the iliac bone grafts, the calvarian transplants resisted secondary resorption.
Postoperative infections appeared in two cases; loss of transplants was avoided entirely in the group of calvarian reconstructions in contrast to the alloplasts.
The selection of a suitable donor site area and rigid fixation with microplates led to excellent esthetic results even in cases with large defects.
Within inpatient psychotherapy traditionally different therapeutic approaches are combined.
Usually verbal interventions of different orientations and settings (e.g.
individual and group therapy), nonverbal procedures (e.g.
music and art therapy) and bodyoriented techniques are included.
The combinations is merely additive, integrated or eclectic.
Little is known about the reciprocal interrelation of such combinations.
Along the example of a definite additive combination of psychodynamic and behavioural psychotherapy for agoraphobias and obsessive disorders a rationale for the interrelationship of the different therapeutic components is discussed.
We report an 18-year old woman with surgically proven primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) and normal intact parathyroid hormone (iPTH) serum levels.
The reason for this rare biochemical presentation are possible biologically active amino-terminal parathyroid hormone polypeptide fragments not detected by the widely used two-site immunoradiometric parathyroid hormone assay (PTH IRMA).
Diagnosis and therapy of primary hyperparathyroidism therefore should not exclusively rest on the finding of hypercalcemia coupled with an elevated iPTH level.
Viral hepatitis belongs to the most important infectious diseases worldwide.
More than 300 million chronic HBsAg carriers and chronic HCV carriers exist, respectively.
High endemic areas of viral hepatitis are Asia, Africa, Latin America and the Near, Middle and Far East.
Viral hepatitis is also very important in health care workers.
Today viral hepatitis can be differentiated from type A to type E (G) based on immunological and molecular assays.
While enterally transmitted hepatitis type A and type E only induce acute and rare fulminant disease, hepatitis type B, C and D often induce chronic progressive disease including liver cirrhosis with typical complications due to the portal hypertension and with a high rate of association with the development of primary liver cancer (HCC).
This review focusses on viral hepatitis-related surgical problems, including liver transplantation.
Hypertensive diseases in pregnancy (HDP) are one of the most frequent causes of maternal death and perinatal mortality.
However, chronic hypertension without complications has a more favorable prognosis than preeclampsia.
Apart from a familial predisposition, mutations of various genes may also be responsible; among these, APC resistance is of particular clinical significance.
The insufficient endovascular invasion of trophoblast in the spiral aterioles is still considered to represent the pathogenetic basis of preeclampsia.
Increased lipid oxidation, deported membrane components of syncytiotrophoblasts, and increased invasion of fetal cells in the maternal circulation triggering immunological reactions are discussed as the causes.
The result is an endothelial imbalance between vasoconstrictory-aggregating and vasodilatatory-antiaggregating compounds.
The results of studies on the relevance of NO synthase are controversial.
Currently, neither reliable methods for the early detection nor certain preventative measures to avoid the disease are available.
Intensive care monitoring and therapy are essential for pregnant women with severe HDP.
The obstetric procedure depends on the severity and dynamics of the disease as well as the state of development of the baby.
When the pregnancy is continued defined guidelines for its termination for maternal or fetal indications must be taken into consideration.
After delivery, the mother must be intensively monitored for at least 24 to 48 hours (postpartal eclampsia/HELLP syndrome).
The risk for recurrence of the preeclampsia is between 20 and 26 % or when it occurred in the second trimester up to 65 % while that of HELLP syndrome is between 3.5 and 24 %.
Acanthosis nigricans is a hyperkeratotic mucocutaneous eruption of heterogenous etiology which is characterized by hyperpigmentation, velvety cutaneous thickening, intensified skin markings and development of verrucous excrescences typically involving the intertriginous areas.
Malignant acanthosis nigricans is most often associated with an abdominal adenocarcinoma frequently unresectable at the time of diagnosis.
We report on the rare association of acanthosis nigricans with a transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder.
Symptomatic treatment with topical calcipotriol significantly reduced the hyperkeratotic and papillomatous skin changes.
The goal of this evaluation study is to analyze the effects of a new gerontopsychiatric institution, the gerontopsychiatric center (GC: a combination of a home-based outpatient service, a day-hospital and a consulting office for elderly with mental disorders) on the reorganization process of the treatment system from intramural toward extramural structures, as experts of the government of the FRG have been demanding for a long time.
Based on data of cross-sectional and longitudinal studies two regional catchment areas - the city of Bielefeld (without GC, control region) and the district of Gütersloh (with GC) - are compared and analyzed, whether changes within the gerontopsychiatric system (subsystem A), the system of general medical treatment (subsystem B), or within the elderly care system (subsystem C) occurred.
Concerning subsystem A the results are that the GC has a strong impact on the intended shift from intra- to extramural structures, without selecting patients by diagnosis nor by severity degrees of their mental disorders in extramural treatment facilities.
The home-based outpatient treatment is especially successful for elderly with a functional psychic disorder.
These patients had the highest scores in improvement of psychiatric symptoms as well as in reduction of their self-care deficits within one year Effects of the GC on subsystem B were evident soon after its establishment, for example, by the increasing cooperation between the gerontopsychiatric health services and general hospitals in the region with GC, in which (hospitals) two fifths of all clinical gerontopsychiatric patients with a mental disorder as the main diagnosis (ICD-9) are treated.
An effect of the GC on subsystem C is possibly the fact that in its region the rate of direct transfers of patients from the clinical gerontopsychiatric department into homes for the elderly is significantly lower than in the region without GC.
In the field of psychoneuroimmunology it has become obvious that the immune system is governed by multiple influences from the central nervous system.
One approach to verify these interactions can be seen in stress research.
While the phenomenon of stress-induced changes in immunological processes is widely accepted, more recent studies focus on possible moderators and mechanisms of these responses.
Within this research strategy it became evident that catecholamine increases upon stress are of a major importance for the frequently observed mild leukocytosis.
The present study was conducted to investigate whether the often observed stress-induced increases in the number of peripheral lymphocyte subsets depends on the amount of epinephrine or norepinephrine release.
Moreover, the question was addressed whether high or low catecholamine release is related to subjective ratings on discomfort.
Using a "public speaking paradigm" we were able to replicate previous findings of high increases in the absolute number of CD8+ and CD56+ cells in peripheral blood.
Moreover, when dividing subjects into high and low catecholamine responders, the amount of change was significantly larger in catecholamine responders irrespective of whether norepinephrine or epinephrine was used for grouping the subjects.
However, high and low catecholamine responders did not differ with respect to subjective ratings on discomfort.
The data are discussed with respect to underlying mechanisms in catecholamine-induced lymphocyte migration and possible reasons for the mismatch between objective and subjective indicators of stressor efficacy.
We report a locally recurrent retiform haemangioendothelioma (RHE) on the right great toe in a 40-year-old woman.
There was a secondary soft tissue lesion on her right lower leg.
Histologically, primary lesion, local recurrence and the secondary soft tissue lesion (soft tissue metastasis?)
Long, arborizing, neoplastic blood vessels were lined by CD31 and factor VIII-positive, monomorphic endothelial tumour cells; focally solid tumour areas, papillae and a prominent inflammatory infiltrate consisting of mature B and T lymphocytes were noted.
The concept and the group of low-grade malignant vascular neoplasms is discussed, with special emphasis on inclusion of RHE in this category.
HMSN is a hereditary symmetric ascending neuropathy of the peripherial nerves.
Several cases of HMSN with motility disorders of both eyes have been reported in the literature.
We describe a patient with HMSN type 1 and an incomplete peripherial 3rd nerve palsy of the right eye.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of developed unilateral oculomotor disorder in a patient with HMSN.
A 34-year-old male (190 cm/100 kg) was scheduled for surgery of the nasal septum.
He had had uneventful anaesthesia for appendicectomy 14 years earlier: following 600 mg thiopentone, 180 mg suxamethonium and up to 2 vol.% halothane for 20 min had been used and no symptoms of malignant hyperthermia (MH) were recorded.
Following oral premedication with 2 mg flunitrazepam at 7.00 a.m. anaesthesia was induced with a priming dose of atracurium at 8.45 a.m. followed by 0.2 mg fentanyl, 500 mg thiopentone, and 100 mg suxamethonium.
Endotracheal intubation was accomplished easily [9], and the patient was ventilated manually in a semi-closed circle system until spontaneous ventilation resumed.
Enflurane (1.5% for 5 min, 1.0% for 10 min, and 0.8% until the diagnosis of MH was suspected) was given in 33% O2/66% N2O.
Seventy minutes after induction it was noted that the spontaneous respiratory rate and minute volume had risen continuously from 10/min and 6 l/min, respectively, to 20/min and 12 l/min.
Attempts at deepening anaesthesia with repeated doses of fentanyl up to a total dose of 0.95 mg failed to reduce the hyperventilation.
In spite of a high fresh gas flow of 6 l/min and assisted manual ventilation, the FIO2 started to fall from 0.34 to 0.28 at 10:20 a.m.
The O2/N2O ratio was changed to 1 : 1, but the FIO2 remained at 0.3.
MH was suspected, enflurane was discontinued, and an arterial blood gas analysis was done (Table 2).
When marked acidosis and hypercarbia were found, dantrolene 2.5 mg/kg was given, the operation was terminated, and the patient's trachea was extubated and he was monitored closely in the intensive care unit for 24 h. Vital signs were stable (Table 3) and no further complications were observed.
The patient did not mention pain or uneasiness postoperatively.
About 6 months later, a muscle biopsy was done according to the European MH Protocol [5] and the patient was found to be MHEh.
In this case five main reasons for the hypercarbia and mixed acidosis must be considered (Table 1).
Firstly, hypoventilation does not seem to be reasonable as the patient was ventilated with 8 to 12 l/min, which is within the range of 80 - 120 mg/kg - min.
Secondly, we can exclude shock and hypoperfusion because the patient had a normal blood pressure and heart rate (within 65 - 90 beats/min), his fingertips and skin were well perfused, his body temperature was 37  °C, and there was no sign of muscle rigidity.
Thirdly, a defect of the CO2 adsorber as well as CO2 admixture to the N2O and O2 ventilation gases can cause hypercarbia.
We use two absorbers in sequence of which one is changed every day, and found neither a change in colour of the indicator nor an abnormally raised temperature of the absorbers [11].
A postoperative check of the ventilator showed no defect in the O2/N2O supply and a correctly functioning anaesthesia apparatus.
A malfunction of both CO2 absorbers resulting in intraoperative hypercarbia could not explain a postoperative mixed acidosis lasting for more than 6 h. Anaesthesias performed at the same time using soda lime from the same canisters were totally uneventful.
It is concluded that the hypercarbia and mixed acidosis were caused by hypermetabolism.
A thorough postoperative examination by an internist did not reveal any thyroid, pulmonary, endocrine, or circulatory reason for our intra- and postoperative findings.
Iatrogenic factors like superficial anaesthesia or systemic side effects of adrenaline admixture to local anaesthetics can cause hypermetabolism without striking clinical signs, but they do not cause mixed acidosis lasting longer than 6 h (Table 2).
The most suitable explanation in this case is an abortive form of MH.
Introduction: Avoidance of extracorporeal circulation during beating heart surgery (OP CAB = Off-Pump Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery) for aortocoronary bypass grafting (ACBG) is gaining increasing importance in modern cardiac surgery.
With the development of new mechanical stabilization devices, the revascularization of the posterior wall of the heart and the distal rith coronary artery became feasable.
Especially high-risk patients with multiple risk factors for open heart surgery will profit from this approach, because the negative effects of the extracorporeal circulation are avoided.
Although dementia is described as one of the constituent characteristics of normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH), alongside gait disturbances and urinary incontinence, there is a rather limited number of controlled studies concerning neuropsychological deficits in the disease.
A wide range of psychopathologically relevant symptoms have been described, but the common features of most cases include mental and motor slowing, apathy, emotional indifference, anosognosia, memory and attentional impairment.
A number of other functional deficits such as dyslexia, dysgraphia, acalculia, apraxia can also frequently be found.
Some emphasis is put on the work of J. de Mol (Brussels) which appears to be most important for the study of neuropsychological symptoms in NPH patients.
The methodological standard of a number of studies has been found to be rather low, and yet a sound neuropsychological investigation may be of utmost importance for the diagnosis and neurosurgical outcome assessment.
Concerning morphological correlates of the functional deficits in NPH, various hypotheses have been formulated, but it is argued that symptoms can neither be described as predominantly "diffuse" in nature, nor can they be reduced to unilocular dysfunctions.
Recommendations for future research strategies are formulated.
Up to now there are no published results of therapy of paraphilia (Pedophilia, Sadism) and sexual aggressive impulsiveness with LHRH-(luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone) Agonists in the Germanspeaking countries.
In this report we describe 11 patients which were treated with the LHRH-Agonist Leuprolide Acetate in a period of 12 months.
The patients showed no tendency of sexuell aggressive behaviour and reported an evident reduction of penile erection, ejaculation, masturbation, sexual deviant impulsiveness and phantasies.
One patient died from suicide.
In combination with other treatments LHRH-Agonist seem to be a very promising alternative to cyproterone acetate and its possible carcinogene effects.
Aim of the study: To investigate the long-term effect of TNFR55-IgG1 in patients with severe rheumatoid arthritis refractory to multiple previous DMARD treatments.
Methods: Between 1994 and 1995 we recruited 80 patients for two double blind, placebo-controlled multicenter trials.
All patients were treated for 2-30 months with a glycosylated fused protein consisting of two human p55 TNF receptors linked to a human IgG1-Fc.
The dose range was 2.5-100mg/month given i.v.
with cumulative doses from 40-940mg.
All patients were followed-up prospectively for 24-36 months after initiation of therapy.
The evaluations included a 48 swollen and tender joint count, ESR, CRP, RF, ANA, ENA, and safety parameters at 6 month intervals.
In addition, pharmacokinetics, TNF, and anti-TNFR55-IgG1 antibody levels were available after the first and third injection.
Results: Data from 80 patients are available representing an experience of more than 170 patient years;  11 patients are still being treated.
Predominant reasons for treatment withdrawal were restrictions in treatment protocol.
Six patients died  (1 during treatment, 5 in the post-treatment follow-up).
All deaths were related to preexisting cardiovascular disease except one post-surgery septic arthritis 6 months after the last dosing (during vacation in another country).
Anti-TNFR55-IgG1 antibodies correlated with a decrease in drug half-time.
Shifts in the TNFR55-IgG1 glycosylation pattern affected pharmacokinetics and efficacy.
A lupus nephritis occurred 18 months after the last dosing in one patient with erosive RA (ANA and dsDNS positive already before TNFR55-IgG1 initiation).
Continued treatment for 3 years in 11 patients resulted in an 81% reduction in swollen joint count, less morning stiffness, less pain, and a reduction in steroids.
Conclusion: Treatment with TNFR55-IgG1 is safe and efficacious over the long-term in patients with severe refractory RA.
For both VFR and as IFR flight, visual assessment is the major source of information for the pilot.
The new possibilities for change of refraction by means of corneal refractive surgery have led to an increasing demand from pilots for these new methods.
Can these methods successfully be applied for aviation purposes?
The valid regulations for medical standards of pilots, as well as the future international regulations such as JAR and ICAO, are explained in this respect.
A report is given on the work of the Advisory Board of the German Federal Government Air Traffic Authority and on the cases treated so far and their outcome, and recommendations are expressed.
Concerning the legal situation and clinical experience, advice for pilots, aviation medical examiners and ophthalmologists is given.
Persistent remnants of the caudal müllerian ducts can manifest in several forms and are often associated with other urogenital disorders, especially hypospadias.
Inadequate activity of the müllerian inhibiting factor, in addition to fetal testosterone deficiency, is responsible for this syndrome.
The etiology, diagnosis and management of müllerian duct remnants are discussed.
A complex case of penile-scrotal hypospadia, hypoplastic prostate gland, testicular ectopia and retrovesical cyst is presented.
The official German guidelines for prevention of nosocomial pneumonia were published by the Bundesgesundheitsamt, now called Robert-Koch-Institut, twelve years ago.
The recently published official "guidelines for prevention of nosocomial pneumonia" of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) are categorized according to scientific evidence.
The American guidelines are very detailed and differ in some aspects from the official German guidelines.
The purpose of the present paper is to inform the German anaesthesiologist about the official CDC guidelines and to provide a renewed background for the prevention of nosocomial pneumonia.
At present, the importation into Germany of life-threatening and highly contagious diseases such as pneumonic plague and Ebola is unlikely, but cannot be ruled out.
In spite of the extreme rarity of these diseases, guidelines are necessary to prevent the spread of these agents in case of their importation.
In Germany, marked regional differences exist with respect to the development of emergency regulations and the availability of specialized centers for diagnostics and therapy.
A federal framework is missing.
A concept is presented here in which the capacity to respond is substantially augmented with limited additional cost through inter-regional cooperation using existing infrastructure and federally standardized procedures.
The therapeutic effect and the side effects of fumaric acid derivatives used in treatment of psoriasis vulgaris have been subjects of controversy for more than 30 years.
A total of 83 patients with severe psoriasis vulgaris were investigated in as ingle-centre, long-term open (12 months) clinical trial to evaluate the efficacy and safety profile of the fumaric acid ester preparations Fumaderm initial and Fumaderm.
The antipsoriatic effect of the fumaric acid derivatives was clear, with a mean reduction of 76% in PASI.
Adverse events in were noted in 62% of the patients (mainly flushing and gastrointestinal complaints).
These were dose-dependent and decreased in frequency in the course of the study.
No severe adverse events occurred.
We believe that of fumaric acid derivatives are indicated in cases of severe therapy-resistant psoriasis to and can be used even for long-term application.
Background: Because retinal necrosis syndrome seldom occurs, we present our results of silicone oil tamponade for associated retinal detachment.
The eyelids are the site of many different pathological conditions.
Swelling - often oedematous - is a frequent symptom.
This publication deals with the pathophysiological and anatomical basis of eyelid swelling and mainly provides a practical approach for differential diagnosis with the help of flow and short characterisations of possible causes.
The subjective complaints of the patient charts (pain, pruritus) are shown to be important criteria for orientation.
Special interest is focussed on allergic diseases and atrophic conditions as causes of eyelid swelling.
A 74-year-old man suffered from symptoms of a left upper lobe pneumonia.
Additional retrosternal masses were proved.
Progression in the left upper lobe occurred in spite of antibiotic therapy; infiltrations of the right lower lobe were seen.
No germs could be identified.
Bronchoscopy and mediastinoscopy showed no pathological findings.
His general health became worse, and the patient died under the clinical diagnosis of "wandering pneumonia" with finally suspicion of fulminant pulmonary artery embolism.
Autopsy findings revealed an advanced stage of pulmonary artery sarcoma with myocardial infiltration and metastases in both kidneys and thyroid gland.
General manifestation of pulmonary artery sarcoma usually are symptoms similar to those caused by pulmonary artery embolism with obstruction of pulmonary arterial flow.
The unusual constellation of clinical findings similar to colliquating pneumonia results in secondary infection due to tumorous pulmonary infarction.
The difficulties in diagnosis by biopsy are caused by primary intravascular growth of the neoplasms.
Therefore early diagnosis in an operable tumor stage by means of CT, MR, and angiography is very important.
Definition of the problem: Is it the brain that makes a human being a person?
This anthropological question has been raised because of the findings of modern human brain research, and there are severe ethical consequences anew: If the appropriate anthropological answer is yes, then all invasive research would be problematic, because one would touch the basis of human essence.
The problem is that the two major philosophical paradigms that offer an answer to the anthropological question, dualism and monism, have opposing concepts.
Arguments: This paper argues that the error of these two paradigms is that they understand the human body and the human mind as 'res' - as things.
The explanation of the human being as an interactive unit of body and mind is impossible in both paradigms.
A third anthropological view that tries to make that understandable is the anthropology of the Hebrew Bible.
It does assume the category 'thing' while speaking about humans, it presumes the category 'aspect'.
There is no Hebrew word for 'mind' in contrast to 'body' or vice versa.
The biblical language only knows terms for the unity of human beings seen under a certain aspect.
Conclusion: Here, the body and thus the brain are important and necessary condition for human essence, but this is not a sufficient explanation for the human personality.
Invasive research on the human brain is here neither generally forbidden nor tolerated - one has to demonstrate in every single case whether the planned operation touches regions that are crucial for the personality of the human subject.
Introduction: In recent studies we identified two morphological phenomena in the facial nucleus of the brainstem that play an important role in the recovery of facial movement: hyperinnervation and misdirected reinnervation.
While the hyperinnervation could easily be quantified by cell counting, the extent of misdirected reinnervation could not be estimated accurately.
In the present study we developed a method for accurate quantification of this misdirected reinnervation.
A 50 year old female patient received anaesthesia of the arm by the vertical infraclavicular blockade of the plexus brachialis (VIP).
Postoperatively an ipsilateral pneumothorax occured complicated by pleural effusion and a contralateral bronchopneumonia, which resolved completely after treatment.
The blockade of the plexus was performed correctly, failures in determining the correct point of needle insertion could be excluded.
Therefore a pneumothorax has to be regarded as a specific complication of the VIP, which might occur despite correct technique, and requires that the patient be informed of this eventuality.
Nevertheless, the VIP is an important method due to its high success rate concerning blockade of the musculocutaneous nerve and tolerance of tourniquet.
The risk of a pneumothorax is about 0.2 to 0.7%.
The routine application of ultrasound in pregnancy has had an important impact on perinatal medicine.
New trends in perinatal medicine, aiming at more individual and self-determined pregnancy and delivery, are realizable because of the safety provided by ultrasound.
Often prenatal ultrasound is regarded as only being able to detect fetal malformations, but ultrasound provides many more benefits for a safe pregnancy: early detection of fetal viability; intrauterine localization of the pregnancy; exact determination of the gestational age in early pregnancy; later in pregnancy, confirmation of appropriate fetal growth, position and localization of placenta site.
In addition, the development of close mother-child bonding by visualizing the fetus could be of positive impact.
These aspects are contributions of ultrasound to a gentle and safe pregnancy and delivery for mother and child.
For routine evaluation of ureteropelvic junction obstruction in children, sonography, voiding cystogram, IV pyelogram and a renal scan in combination with administration of furosemide are available.
Furthermore, often preoperative antegrade or retrograde ureteropyelography is performed.
However, the significance of retrograde ureteropyelography in the world literature remains controversial.
Therefore, we reviewed the records of 41 children who underwent a pyeloplasty in our department.
In 9 children the ureter was visualized by IV pyelogram, voiding cystogram or antegrade ureteropyelography; a retrograde examination of the ureter was performed in 21 children before pyeloplasty in the OR.
In 11 children the ureter was not visualized preoperatively.
Retrograde ureterography neither gave additional information in any patient nor did it change the operative technique.
In the children where the ureter was not visualized preoperatively, no ureteric abnormality was found in association with ureteropelvic junction obstruction.
Hence, we conclude that retrograde ureteropyelography before pyeloplasty in children is not necessary, provided that sonography does not show ureteral dilatation.
We report on a patient with multicentric juvenile xanthogranuloma, whose unusual clinical and histological pattern initially obscured the diagnosis.
Spontaneous remission of the tumour, which has now been maintained for over 2 years, the change from the primary monomorphological fibrocytic appearance to a polymorphological histiocytic picture with multiple fat-storing giant cells, and the lacking demonstration of specific cell organelles finally allowed the nature of the disease to the definitely diagnosed.
In children with horseshoe kidneys Wilms' tumors can be observed 2 to 8-times more often.
Wilms' tumors are malignant mixed tissue tumors that seldom show large parts of fatty tissue.
We report about a 28-month-old girl with an unusual Wilms' tumor in a horseshoe kidney which according to radiological criteria could have been a teratoma because of its large lipomatous part with internal calcifications.
The radiological characteristics of these differential diagnoses are presented in different cross-section imagings.
Both differential diagnostic considerations correlated with the histologic diagnosis of a teratoid Wilms'tumor.
Gene therapy in orthopedic surgery is a new technic based on the idea of biological tissue healing.
External gene segments are transferred to cells that overexpress growth factors locally to achieve this effect.
The influence of growth factors on fracture healing is very well documented in the literature.
Experimental data demonstrate that defect healing in bone can be accelerated by the application of different cytokines in vivo.
Gene transfer is a promising, new technic of in situ tissue engineering that will enter clinics within the next decade.
Biomechanical investigations of the mandible are difficult to perform due to a variety of conditions involved.
For the appropriate reconstruction of biomechanical properties, a geometrically correct body model has to be established which fits to complex in vivo conditions.
The aim of our study was to evaluate the use of finite-element models (FEM) for the assessment of mandibular deformation under mechanical loading.
Explanted human mandibles (n = 5) were investigated by strain gauges to determine the individual strain distribution under mechanical loading.
FEM analysis based on a computed tomograph (CT) was performed and the results were matched with the test data.
Our study demonstrates only minor interindividual differences in the strain distribution for each load studied.
The mechanical response in terms of deformation was found to depend mainly on gross geometrical properties and to a minor extent on the various other variables.
At all positions the maximum principal strain was tensile, the minimum principal strain was compressive, and the absolute strain values were correlated with the magnitude of the applied force.
CT-based FEM analysis revealed the utility of mathematical models to approximate simulated data our experimental results.
Hence, FEM analysis is a non-invasive tool in the prediction of biomechanical behaviour of individual mandibles and therefore may help in trauma reconstruction and treatment planning.
Acrodysostosis is a rare syndrome characterized by growth retardation and peripheral dysostosis.
70% of affected patients exhibit mental retardation.
Inheritance occurs in an autosomal-dominant pattern.
The genetic defect is not known.
Therapeutic strategies in the treatment of pancreatic carcinoma are based on the high number of non-resectable cancers, the high relative radioresistance and the high distant metastases rate.
Even in curatively resected carcinomas, a locally effective treatment modality is needed because of the risk of microscopical residual disease in the peripancreatic tissue.
The efficacy of radiotherapy is dose dependent.
Based on an analysis of published data a dose of more than 50 Gy is recommended, resulting in a high morbidity rate with external beam radiotherapy alone.
The use of intraoperative radiotherapy allows locally restricted dose escalation without increased perioperative morbidity.
In adjuvant and in primary treatment, local tumor contol was improved (70-90 %).
With palliative intent, pain relief was obtained rapidly in over 60 % of patients and led to improved patient performance.
As a result of the high distant metastases rate, even in curatively resected carcinomas, the overall prognosis could not be significantly improved.
Further dose escalation is limited by the increasing incidence of upper gastrointestinal bleeding (20-30 %).
Malignant tumors of the head and neck region are amongst the six most often occurring tumors of the body.
They can be associated with the different anatomical compartments as well as different histologic types.
The way of tumor spread of these malignancies depends on their histologic type and on the region.
These compartments can be separated into the nasopharynx, the oropharynx, and the hypopharynx.
Most of the malignant tumors belong to the squamous cell carcinomas, other histologic types are depicted less frequently.
The histologic types of the other groups which are seen more often comprise of lymphomas and adenoidcystic carcinomas.
The undifferentiated carcinoma of the nasopharynx is supposed to be a special type of tumor.
The malignant tumors of the pharynx can also involve all three compartments.
Beside these tumors, malignancies of mesenchymal origin can also be delineated.
While there are quite a number of reports on vascular injuries complicating hip arthropasty by acetabular component screw fixation, retractor tip pressure or extruding bone cement, the incidence of deep femoral vessel injuries in operative fixation of proximal femoral fractures is comparatively seldom described.
We report on two patients with per- and subtrochanteric femoral fractures who sustained injuries of deep femoral artery branches during the implantation of a dynamic hip screw (DHS) and a dynamic condylar screw (DCS), which resulted in a massive thigh hematoma and a fist-size pseudoaneurysm respectively and necessitated surgical intervention in either case.
We blame these vascular injuries on the pressure of Hohmann retractors exposing the femoral bone or on the drilling of boreholes for plate attachement.
After discussing various operative procedures, we conclude that intramedullar implants are safer than plates with regard to potential vascular complications.
Cleft lip and palates (CLP) are caused by a variety of factors.
Ionizing radiation is only one of these factors.
The meltdown of the nuclear reactor at Chernobyl on April 26, 1986, and the subsequent radioactive fallout did not cause any acute radiation sickness in Germany.
Nevertheless, in West Berlin a significant increase of trisomy-21 cases was reported in births 9 months after the Chernobyl reactor accident.
In our study we analyzed the influence of the radioactive fallout after the Chernobyl disaster on the rate and regional distribution of CLP newborns in the former German Democratic Republic (GDR).
In contrast to the Federal Republic of Germany an ongoing malformation register for CLP newborns had existed in the former GDR since 4 July 1967.
Environmental data were collected from national and international environmental authorities and atomic energy agencies.
Population statistics were taken from the statistical yearbook of the former GDR.
During a 10-year period from 1980 to 1989, the average number of CLP newborns in the GDR was 1.88 per 1,000 live births.
A significant prevalence increase was recorded in 1983, 1987 und 1988.
In comparison to the mean rate in the period from 1980 until 1986, 1987 demonstrated an increase of 9.4%.
Regional prevalence increases were seen in the three northern districts of Schwerin, Rostock and Neubrandenburg, where the radioactivity measurements in general showed higher levels of the radionuclides caesium-137 und strontium-90 than in other districts.
Owing to the comprehensive malformation register for CLP patients in the GDR, this is the first study for Germany, analyzing the CLP rate before and after the fallout in Chernobyl.
The results support the allegation of the influence of radiation-induced increase of CLP newborns after the Chernobyl reactor accident.
The median survival time for patients with disseminated malignant melanoma is 5-7 months; it is still not really known whether therapeutic measures prolong survival.
The aim of the present investigation was to identify patients with prolonged survival in stage IV disease and to analyse the possible impact of therapy on the course of the disease.
in the Department of Dermatology, Benjamin Franklin University Medical Centre at the Free University of Berlin, 263 patients with were diagnosed as having stage IV melanoma and enrolled in a computer-based registry between 1970 and 1993.
In 89 cases systemic medical mentous treatment was given and 111 patients underwent surgery and/or radiation therapy.
There were 48 patients who received both systemic and local therapy.
On the other hand, 111 patients received no treatment.
Twenty two patients were identified survived longer than 24 months (median survival time 33 months).
None of the patients who had received no treatment survived for 2 years or longer.
The 22 patients with prolonged survival were treated by multimodality included 16 who had received both systemic treatment and surgery and/or radiation, while 3 had had only systemic drug therapy and another 3, only local treatment.
Twelve of the 22 patients became tumour free after their initial surgery or radiation.
Active therapy in disseminated melanoma with reduction of tumour mass by surgery and radiation and with systemic medical treatment may lead to prolonged survival in a considerable percentage of patients.
Background: The use of intravenous heparin is essential for the treatment of unstable angina and acute myocardial infarction.
A significant rebound of thrombin generation within 6 to 10 hours after termination of heparin infusion has been reported.
This time window is clinically critical as the incidence of recurrent ischemia peaks in this period.
It has therefore been recommended to gradually taper heparin infusion continously rather than to discontinue it abruptly.
However, it is not known which dosing procedure is useful and whether it definitly reduces thrombin rebound.
The use of porcine skin as a biomedical model for the human integument is discussed with reference to the literature.
The epidermis and dermis can be used as a model as there are clear structural, functional and biochemical similarities with human skin layers.
The actual utilization of porcine skin in dermatological research is reviewed.
Practical difficulties are emphasized: in particular, the conditions required for use of porcine skin in experimental research, the most suitable breeds, and restrictions on biological interpretation of the results.
Laparoscopic procedures have attained increasing importance in the diagnosis and therapy of carcinoma of the cervix in recent years (Table 1) [34].
Laparoscopic pelvic and para-aortal lymphadenectomies are therefore performed to assess the operability of carcinoma of the cervix and for its staging.
In the case of primarily operable tumours, paraortal and pelvic lymphadenectomy is carried out by a laparoscopic procedure, and when the lymph nodes are negative nodes and there is no intra-abdominal metastasis the lymphadenectomy is combined with laparoscopically assisted vaginal hysterectomy.
If laparoscopy discloses positive lymph nodes, debulking can be carried out and the patient can be referred for radiotherapy.
In addition, laparoscopic procedures, even in combination with radical cervicectomy for early invasive carcinoma of the cervix, can mean conservation of the patient's fertility.
In the case of primarily inoperable tumours laparoscopy can be used to assess the lymph node status and the intra-abdominal tumour spread and to classify the patient's condition as potentially secondarily operable or inoperable.
In addition, in the case of primarily undertreated patients whose carcinoma of the cervix has been diagnosed incidentally in preparations of tissue examined following hysterectomy, posttreatment in the form of laparoscopic lymphadenectomy and laparoscopically assisted colpectomy can be performed.
The efficacy of buprenorphine in opioid dependent patients (n=20) was compared to methadone maintained subjects (n=20) in a randomized comparison trial.
Sublingual application of buprenorphine as an alternative synthetical opioid is being compared to methadone during a 24 week study period.
A trend (p=0.06) could be found in the retention rate of investigated patients being maintained on a mean dosage of 63 mg oral applicable methadone (racemat of L- and D-methadone) in comparison to the group on a mean dosage of 7,3 mg buprenorphine (sublingual tablets).
The dropout-rate of 11 subjects at the end of the study in the buprenorphine group was higher when compared to the dropout-rate of 5 in the methadone group.
There was no significant difference between the two groups over the treatment period in respect to additional consumption of opiates, benzodiazepines and cocaine as evaluated through urine toxicology.
The result in regard to compliance over the study period demonstrates that methadone appears to be the more successful oral opioid (p=0,04).
Nevertheless, efficacy of buprenorphine in maintenance could be demonstrated in the remaining subjects, and further studies with higher daily doses and a higher number of subjects have to be performed.
In patients with pleural or peritoneal mesothelioma, surgery is a technically difficult procedure.
Whereas those rare forms of localized pleural mesotheliomy are being detected incidentally and can be cured by complete resection, most patients with diffuse malignant mesothelioma present with an advanced stage of disease.
Most of these patients survive less than 12 months irrespective of the treatment modality.
For diffuse pleural mesothelioma, some favorable prognostic factors were identified: IMIG (International Mesothelioma Interest Group), stages I and II, epithelial type, age under 50, female gender.
In IMIG stages I and II, extended pleuropneumonectomy followed by chemo- and/or radiotherapy is recommended.
For this subset of patients, a median survival time of between 20 and 30 months is reported.
Pleurectomy and decortication are recommended as palliative surgical strategies against pleural effusion.
In patients with technically inoperable infiltration of the thoracic wall, irradiation is helpful; sometimes partial remission and relief of pain can be achieved by chemotherapy.
Fetal magnetocardiography (fMCG) registers the magnetic field generated by the fetal heart.
In contrast to the fetal elctrocardiogram, fECG permits non-invasive registration of fetal heart activity and documentation of all parts of the PQRST-wave-forms from the second trimenon onwards.
This facilitates the determination of cardiac time intervals and establishment of reference values for different stages of pregnancy.
We examined 53 women in 104 recordings from the 10th week of gestation onwards (1 to 10 recordings per individual).
The fMCG (37 magnetic channels, sampling rate 1024 Hz, bandwidth 1-200Hz) was recorded non-invasively over the mother's abdomen in a magnetically shielded room.
Registration of fetal heart beats was generally successful from the 20/21th week of gestation onwards.
In a few cases, fetal heart beats could be registered as early as in the 16th week.
Cardiac time intervals and amplitudes of fMCG increased concordantly with fetal growth.
Mean P wave duration increased from 31 to 49 ms (p < 0.05), PQ interval from 95 to 107 ms (n. s.) and QRS duration from 36 to 52 ms (p < 0.01).
The mean amplitudes of the P and R waves also increased.
To demonstrate imaging findings in inflammatory diseases of the pharynx and possible complications.
The purpose of this retrospective study was to analyse the complications of our arthroscopic procedures at the ankle joint.
In all patients we evaluated the treatment protocols and in 111 patients (79,3%) we also evaluated the clinical and radiologic results.
All in all we have found complications in 14 patients.
In 4 cases we have seen a delayed wound healing, in 2 cases a superficial infection, in 3 cases a deep infection, in 3 cases a neural damage and in 2 cases a phlebothrombosis.
Our study show, that the complication rate could be minimized by detailed knowledge of the anatomy, exact preoperative diagnostic and planing of the operation and careful preparation of the portals.
The use of a laser also shows a tendency to a lower complication rate.
Airbag inflation is associated with a loud noise.
This very short noise has a peak amplitude of 170 dB sound pressure level and can make otologic injuries.
We report a case of acoustic trauma after airbag inflation.
The 24-year-old man has hearing loss both side in the 3000- to 6000-Hz range and in the deep-frequency.
The possibility of acoustic trauma from airbag noise are probably much more common and need more attention in the clinic.
The incidence of primary malignant neoplasms of the pleura, the pericardium and the peritoneum in Germany has been rising since about the mid-1980 s. A continuing rise is expected until about 2020, predominantly due to the peak of asbestos processing in Germany between 1965 and 1980.
About 90 % of the mesotheliomas stored in the files of the German Mesothelioma Registry in Bochum are asbestos related and therefore possibly due to occupational exposure that may be compensated by the professional associations.
More than 500 mesotheliomas annually can be diagnosed in the German Mesothelioma Registry.
In this first part of the series on mesotheliomas, current concepts on etiology and pathogenesis as well as diagnostic procedures and standards are discussed.
At the present, specific chromosomal or genetic defects that constantly give rise to a mesothelioma are not known.
The initiation and progression of malignant mesotheliomas is a highly complex mechanism that is based on individual genetic alterations.
A reliable diagnosis is the basis for therapeutic, prognostic and medicolegal conseques; in general, it can be achieved by thoracoscopic inspection with selected biopsy.
Surgery may gain a more important role in the therapy of malignant tumors of serosal membranes not only in palliative, but also in potential curative approaches if the diagnosis can be made at earlier tumor stages.
Acute gastrointestinal bleeding is a life threatening disease with a mortality rate of 10%.
Upper gastrointestinal bleeding occurs more frequent (85%) and more severe compared to lower gastrointestinal bleeding.
The medical history may be helpful in the diagnosis of the bleeding source.
Prognosis and mortality are dependent on intensity of bleeding, reflected by clinical signs such as shock, hemoglobin level, transfused blood units, hematemesis, presence of comorbidity and age of the patient.
Furthermore rebleeding is associated with an increased mortality.
Therefore one major goal in the treatment of gastrointestinal bleeding is to avoid rebleeding.
Joints are innervated by nociceptive nerve fibres (nociceptors), which are only activated by tissue-damaging stimuli.
This activation causes pain in conscious humans.
The sensory terminals of many nociceptors in the tissue are sensitized by inflammatory processes.
Under these conditions, normally innocuous and non-painful stimuli are sufficient to activate nociceptors and to elicit pain.
The effect of inflammatory mediators such as bradykinin and prostaglandins is important for the process of sensitization.
In addition to their sensory function, many nociceptors have an efferent function.
They evoke a neurogenic inflammation by the release of neuropeptides such as substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide into the tissue.
The efferent function of nociceptors contributes to the generation of inflammatory lesions of the tissue.
Autolyzed, antigen-extracted, allogeneic bone (AAA bone) is prepared from cortical bones of human organ donors.
AAA bone possesses osteoinductive properties as it delivers BMPs from its bone matrix.
Within a prospective study, 37 cranial defects were reconstructed using AAA bone implants over a period of more than 7 years.
The patients were followed-up at standardized intervals.
Roentgenographic assessments and bone scintigraphies revealed osseous integration and remodelling of the AAA bone implants.
In one quarter of the cases re-entry was performed 10 to 18 months after the cranioplasty (removal of osteosynthesis material, recurrence of tumor).
All nine AAA bone reconstructions showed bleeding surfaces and bony integrations.
A bone biopsy was taken from the center of one of these AAA bone implants and this showed new bone formation originating from the surface of the implant.
In one case an AAA bone implant was lost due to infection.
This is noteworthy as in approximately one third of the cases the bone implants were in direct contact with the frontal sinus.
The clinical results clearly emphasize the therapeutical benefit of AAA bone for cranioplasties.
Large AAA bone chips from human skull bones facilitate the reconstruction of the skull's convexity, especially when sterolithography-based operation planning is performed.
Saphenous vein harvesting remains a 20 % source of morbidity in patients who require lower extremity bypass or coronary artery bypass grafting.
In an attempt to reduce the complications associated with this procedure, minimally invasive video-assisted vein harvesting is propagated.
The technique uses currently available endoscopic equipment with mechanical retraction to dissect the great saphenous vein with two limited incisions.
The dissection is visualized on the video monitor to isolate and control side branches by clips.
The vein is removed for reverse arterial bypass grafting or dissection is completed for an in situ bypass procedure.
Initial experience with ten patients undergoing peripheral bypass procedures showed a mean vein-preparation time of 60 min.
Two of seven in situ bypass procedures were complicated by side branch damage controlled through longer skin incision.
After a mean follow-up of 12 months, all bypasses are patent.
Taking our own experience as well as that reported in the literature into consideration, aspects of cost-effectiveness are discussed.
Obstructions of the nasolacrimal duct occur frequently (70%) in term newborns and are symptomatic in 6%.
The reason is an incomplete canalization and differentiation of the lacrimal duct during the fetal period.
A persisting membran between the duct and the nasal cavity at the level of the valve of Hasner in combination with a proximal valvelike obstruction at the junction of the lacrimal canal and sac may cause a dacryocystocele by fluid accumulation.
We describe a term newborn with a bilateral dacryocystocele and respiratory distress.
The recognition of a medical discipline on a European level as an independent specialty depends on its registration in the medical directives of the European Union.
With supreme effort, the oral and maxillofacial surgeons of the EU reached this goal in 1989.
The UEMS - Section of Stomatology and Oromaxillofacial Surgery - became the forum for discussion of the relevant problems with representatives of the member states and officials of the European Commission.
Thanks to its activities, oral and maxillofacial surgery is now recognized as an independent specialty with about 3800 specialists in 11 European countries.
A biatrial pacemaker was inserted in a 68-year-old female with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and atrial flutter refractory to antiarrhythmic drugs based on a sick-sinus-syndrome and concomitant interatrial conduction delay.
One electrode positioned in the right atrium and another electrode located in the coronary sinus were connected to a dual-chamber pacemaker.
The electrode in the right atrium was connected to the atrial channel, the electrode in the coronary sinus to the ventricular channel.
The pacemaker was programmed in DDD-mode with an AV-delay of 30 ms.
Under a chronic antiarrhythmic medication with 160 mg sotalol per day there was no evidence for recurrent episodes of atrial tachyarrhythmias in the patient's history, 24-h-Holter-ECG, nor in the memory of the pacemaker during a follow-up of 8 months.
The AB0 blood types, first discovered by Karl Landsteiner in 1901, can be genotyped with the PCR method of Lee and Chang [6].
Using two primer pairs, allele-specific sequences can be amplified and, after digestion with restriction endonucleases, visualized by silver staining on a polyacrylamide gel.
In a southwest German population the allele frequencies were: Allele A = 0.2704, allele B = 0.0741 and allele 0 = 0.6556.
With the method of Lee and Chang [6] only the nucleotide positions 261 and 703 are considered so that out of 280 individuals 10 (3.57%) showed differences between the AB0 genotype and phenotype, because it was not possible to differentiate between A and 02 alleles.
Based on the one experience and the information that is available in the literature indications for ankle arthroscopy are given, surgical equipment, patient placement and surgical technique of different procedures are described.
Finally the results and possible complications are presented.
Removal of loose bodies as well as synovectomies in case of an acute infection or rheumatoid arthritis are good indication.
Arthroscopic treatment of anterior pathology in the athletic ankle need a thorough diagnostic work-up; the results of the treatment do not always meet the expectations of this especially demanding population.
Cartilage treatment is technically possible, however, long term results are still missing.
This is also true for the treatment on osteochondritis dissecans.
In patients with degenerative joint disease arthroscopic debridement can only lead to a temporary benefit.
Arthroscopic assisted arthrodeses (AAA) is technically demanding, but can serve as an excellent alternative to conventional open techniques.
The complication rate in ankle arthroscopy is high compared to other joints, which is especially true for neurologic complications and postoperative infections.
This should be addressed when performing the informed consent.
Recent prospective randomised trials dealed with the optimal extent of surgical resection as well as with preoperative therapy modalities in pancreatic, rectal and breast cancer.
In pancreatic cancer extended lymphadenectomy did not improve overall survival.
Total mesorectal excision remarkably changed surgery for rectal cancer.
Rate of local recurrence of rectal cancer could be significantly reduced by preoperative irradiation.
In advanced rectal cancers curative resection and sphincter preservation seems possible due to multimodal preoperative therapy.
It has been demonstrated that in appropriate cases breastpreserving resection is comparable to mastectomy with respect to overall survival.
Up to now it is not quite clear if sentinel node sampling is equivalent to routine lymphadenectomy.
Following neoadjuvant chemotherapy breastpreservation rate is significantly higher, but survival is not significantly increased.
Introduction and Methods: A 0.5 T open-configuration MR system allows free access to the patient via a 58-cm-wide opening on both sides of the machine.
A newly developed system for needle guidance enables the examiner to perform biopsies in combination with real-time imaging and to position laser fibers in the human body.
For imaging, a 2D gradient echo sequence is used (TR 19 ms, TE 9 ms, flip angle 30  °, FOV 24 x 24 cm, slice thickness 10 mm matrix 256 x 128).
The acquired images are displayed on two LCD screens localized within the MR system, thus allowing an interactive needle guidance.
This procedure is illustrated by a case report.
Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors are established drugs for the treatment of patients with heart failure and hypertension.
There is mounting evidence to suggest that ACE inhibitors may be used for different indications as well.
The rational for the use of ACE inhibitors is to block the vasoconstrictive effects mediated by angiotensin II.
The hemodynamic profile of ACE inhibitors is modified by additional effects such as interference with the degredation of bradykinin and accumulation of prostaglandin and nitric oxide (NO).
Thus ACE inhibitors may be successful in preventing the negative effects of vasoconstriction on regional circulation.
Since vasoconstriction, particularly of the mesenteric vasculature appears to be largely mediated by the renin-angiotensin-axis, ACE inhibitors are assumed to be effective in treating or avoiding gut mucosal hypoperfusion.
The critically ill intensive care patient at risk of developing multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) is still a major therapeutic challenge.
Intravenous preparations of ACE inhibitors may broaden our therapeutic armamentarium for these patients.
However, several questions about the exact mechanisms of ACE inhibitors, such as the ideal substance and the optimal dose, are still open.
Moreover, further work needs to be done to definitely determine whether ACE inhibitors may be helpful to prevent or treat (micro-) circulatory catastrophe in these patients.
The pharmacologic properties of ACE inhibitors provide an exciting stepping stone for future research in this field.
Hypoparathyroidism (HP) results from deficient parathyroid hormone (PTH) secretion, pseudohypoparathyreoidism (PHP) results form decreased PTH action on its target organs.
Between May 1996 and 1999, a total of 186 endoscopic spinal operations were performed to treat unstable injuries and pathologic fractures.
The operative spinal interventions followed the classic sequence of excision of part of a vertebral body, partial replacement of the vertebral body with bone harvested from the iliac crest, and implantation of a titanium plate to stabilize the part to be fused.
In 62% of these cases we performed primary dorsal straightening with a fixateur interne.
The serious complications were aortic leakage and deep infection in the area of the graft and the implant, each of which occurred in 1 case.
Comparisons with the literature showed approximately the same rate of spinal complications as with open surgery, while the rate of morbidity connected with the surgical approach was reduced to a third in the patient population treated endoscopically, with correspondingly positive implications for the postoperative analgesic requirement and for convalescence.
Various risk scores have been developed for the assessment of operative risk in cardiac surgery.
Although risk stratification has been acknowledged as a useful tool to analyze trends in therapy and changes in patient populations, its relevance in assessing the indication for surgery has been questioned.
It was the goal of this prospective study to compare 6 common risk scores with regard to the predictive value for mortality in individual patients.
Between September 1998 and February 1999 all adult patients undergoing heart surgery were prospectively scored according to the following scores: initial Parsonnet, Cleveland Clinic, French, Euro, Pons, and the Ontario Province Risk score.
Early lethality was assessed within 30 days postoperatively.
Follow-up was completed in 504 patients.
With the exception of the Ontario Province Risk score, lethality in the high risk group was overestimated by all scores, whereas lethality in low to moderate risk groups was underestimated by several scores.
Mean scores of surviving and deceased patients showed a broad overlap with high standard deviations.
Preoperative risk scores are effective tools for stratification of patient populations and the analysis of surgical outcome.
With the aid of risk scores, operative risk can be sufficiently predicted for patient populations or subpopulations.
The Euro score best predicted the outcome of our patients.
However, when the indication for surgery is to be determined in an individual patient, risk scores should be only considered as an orientation in the decision process.
Background and objective: A complicated course of erysipelas is not uncommon.
Bullous, haemorrhagic, necrotic and purulent lesions may be encountered.
Today no reliable data exist as to which constitutional factors renders a patient at risk for developing complicated erysipelas though several risk factors, particularly diabetes mellitus, are often suggested.
Based on the analysis of patients with erysipelas at the Department of Dermatology in Graz, factors determining the risk for complicated erysipelas should be identified.
Patients/Methods: In a retrospective case-control study clinical data sheets of 766 in- patients treated at the department were evaluated with respect to the course of the erysipelas and with respect to potential risk factors.
Results: General risk factors for local complications were location at the lower extremities, pre-existing hepatic or renal disease, hyperuricaemia, and diabetes mellitus.
Hepatic and renal disease and - to a lesser extent - diabetes particularly predisposed for bullous and haemorrhagic lesions, while vascular occlusive disease enhanced the risk for ne- crotic lesions.
Conclusions: Location and hepatic and renal disease are the most important risk factors, while diabetes is probably of less significance than previously suggested.
Patients with end-stage liver disease frequently develop combined coagulopathies due to increased procoagulant and fibrinolytic turnover as well as thrombocytopenia.
The onset of clinical symptoms of a haemorrhagic diathesis requires balanced substitution of coagulation factors, since fresh frozen plasma alone does not always maintain a sufficient haemostatic potential in these patients.
This substitution commonly follows standard rules based on the assumption that 0.5 - 1 IU of a coagulation factor or inhibitor concentrate given per kg body weight will increase its endogenous activity by 1%.
We set out to investigate the validity of this standard regime in patients with end-stage liver disease scheduled for orthotopic liver transplantation.
Fifty-one adult patients were prospectively studied.
In 37 patients with antithrombin III (AT III) activity <70%, an AT III preparation (Kybernin, Behring, Marburg, Germany) was given preoperatively (mean dose 2616 +/- 207 IU) following standard calculations in order to increase endogenous activity to 80%.
Twenty-seven of the patients had chronic hepatic failure (CHF group) with histologically proven cirrhosis and 10 had acute hepatic failure (AHF group).
Blood samples were drawn prior to a 15-min infusion of AT III concentrate and 30 min thereafter.
In 14 patients with prothrombin time (PT) <40%, AT III levels had been corrected earlier during the clinical course to achieve activities >70%.
Prothrombin complex (PPSB, Beriplex, Behring, Marburg, Germany) was substituted (mean dose 2304 +/- 289 IU) to increase procoagulant activity to PT >60%.
Blood samples were drawn in the same fashion as in the AT III group.
The amounts of AT III and PPSB concentrates ( AT III, [IU/kg];  PPSB [IU/kg]) required to increase AT III activity and PT, respectively, by 1% were calculated.
Standard calculations for AT III substitution indicated AT III recovery in all 37 patients who received AT III concentrate.
However, there was a statistically significant difference between patients with CLF and ALF.
In patients with CLF,  AT III was found to be 0.8 IU/kg ( +/- 0.1 SEM) and in those with ALF it was 1.5 IU/kg ( +/- 0.1 SEM) (P<0.05,  t-test).
In patients treated with PPSB concentrate,  PPSB was 1.6 U/kg ( +/- 0.2 SEM) for both CLF and ALF groups.
In patients with end stage liver disease standard rules for substitution with AT III-concentrate are adequate only for patients with CLF.
In patients with ALF higher AT III doses are required to achieve the expected effect on endogenous AT III activity.
Procoagulant activity, as reflected by PT, can be increased by 1% when 1.6 IU/kg PPSB concentrate is given.
However, this study shows the effects of coagulation concentrates only 30 min after administration.
An increased volume of distribution and increased turnover may explain the poor recovery of AT III activity in the ALF group, indicating that the dose of coagulation concentrate should be estimated against the background of the patient's clinical symptoms and diagnosis.
Fatigue is a common symptom in patients with multiple sclerosis.
Rapid exhaustion and reduced exercise tolerance leads to difficulties in maintaining a normal daily life for many patients.
Regular resting and short breaks can help to compensate this to a  certain degree.
A sixteen year old girl with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis suffered two episodes of toxic shock syndrome within a short period of time.
Both occasions were associated with menstruation.
Mycoplasma hominis was isolated in the tracheal secretions once.
Discussion: The etiology of the toxic shock syndrome has been extensively described.
The toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 acts as a superantigen in toxic shock syndrome and interestingly a similar mechanism is discussed in juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.
This case report demonstrates the possibility of a close relationship between toxic shock syndrome and juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and raises the suspicion of a similar immunopathogenetic process.
Porokeratos of Mibelli is a rare inherited disorder of epidermal keratinization, whose pathogenesis is not fully understood.
The common clinical feature is a erythematous plaque surrounded by a hyperkeratotic border.
The histopathologic hallmark is a parakeratotic cornoid lamella.
An unusual case of porokeratosis gigantea, a morphological variant of classical porokeratosis of Mibelli, is reported.
The pathogenesis, taking in account especially the clonal hypothesis and premalignant nature of porokeratosis, is discussed.
With the introduction of the non-benzodiazepine hypnotics zopiclone and zolpidem it was expected to have hypnotics without side effects and risks characteristically seen with benzodiazepines.
We report two cases with high-dose usage and dependency of non-benzodiazepine hypnotics.
Both patients were prescribed the drugs to treat sleep disturbances occuring during a depressive episode.
While one patient had a polysubstance abuse there was no evidence for an abuse history in the other patient.
To reduce withdrawal symptoms long-acting benzodiazepines were given to both patients.
Thus, it seems that not only patients with a history of substance abuse but also patients with a psychiatric disorder are at risk for abuse of non-benzodiazepine hypnotics.
Considering the increasing number of case reports with abuse and dependence of zopiclone and zolpidem it seems necessary to reevaluate the dependency risk of the currently available non-benzodiazepine hypnotics.
Fractures of the proximal radius in children may lead to deformities of the radial head and functional disturbance of pro- and supination.
However, traumatization is not only caused by the injury itself, but may also occur secondary to surgical reduction, manipulation of fracture fragments and excessive physiotherapy.
In a prospective long-term follow-study (2-20 years after trauma) of 38 children with displaced proximal radius fractures we found functional disturbances in 11 % of children only.
These were not caused by radial head deformities, which were present on 83 % of follow-up radiographs.
Functional impairment was mainly seen after open reduction or secondary growth disturbances.
On follow-up radiographs all conservatively treated fracture angulations up to 60  ° had corrected themselves spontaneously.
In view of the high complication rates after open reduction and the poor functional results, as well as the inconvenience for the pediatric patient and the economic aspects, we recommend a primary conservative treatment concept of proximal radius fractures in children.
Patients who have undergone cardiac surgery with use of extracorporeal circulation frequently reveal marked hypovolaemia in spite of a highly positive fluid balance.
This is thought to be due to transient microvascular damage and extravascular fluid shift.
Further volume replacement to achieve haemodynamic stability in the postoperative period may cause fluid overload and congestive heart failure.
The present study was designed to investigate whether this fluid overload could be avoided by using a hypertonic-hyperoncotic solution (group I: HHL, 10% hydroxyethylstarch 200/0.5 in 7.2% saline) instead of two different standard colloid solutions (group II: HA, 5% albumin; group III: HES, 6% hydroxyethylstarch in 0.9% saline).
Purpose: The temporomandibular joint is a place of motion where release of proinflammatory cytokines like interleukin-1 (IL-1) induces cartilage destruction via production of nitric oxide (NO).
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of continuous passive motion in the form of cyclic stretch on the synthesis of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS).
Methods: Articular chondrocytes were harvested from rabbit cartilage slices and cultured in F12 medium supplemented with 10% fetal calf serum.
Subsequently, cells (105/ml per well) were transferred to Flexercell plates, grown to 90% confluency, and subjected to one of the following regimens: (1) no mechanical strain (10 Hz, 20% elongation rate); (2) rhIL-1 (1 ng/ml); (3) mechanical strain; (4) mechanical strain and rhIL-1.
The cells were exposed to cyclic stretch for 24 h. Thereafter, cells were trypsinized and centrifuged on microscope slides in a cytospin centrifuge.
The presence of iNOS was determined by indirect immunoperoxidase staining using polyclonal rabbit anti-iNOS as primary antibodies, and goat anti-rabbit IgG conjugated with horseradish peroxidase (HRP) as secondary antibodies.
Diaminobenzidine was used as substrate for HRP.
Total NO production was spectrophotometrically measured in the supernatants of cultures using Greiss reaction.
All experiments were done in triplicates and the statistical significance was analyzed by Student's t-test.
Results: Cells with treatment 1 and 3 did not exhibit presence of iNOS.
IL-1-treated cells in group 2 exhibited intense peroxidase staining.
Cells in group 4 exposed to IL-1 and mechanical stress showed staining with considerably less intensity.
Control cells treated with normal rabbit IgG as a primary antibody did not exhibit peroxidase staining.
The data were further confirmed by measurement of statistically significant differences of NO levels in supernatants assessed in the four different treatment groups.
Conclusion: Our findings suggest that continuous passive motion exerts anti-inflammatory effects on chondrocytes, downregulating the quantity of iNOS -positive cells.
Since NO acts as an intracellular, transcellular, and cytotoxic molecule, it has a basic importance for proper post-traumatic and postoperative TMJ function as well as the course and therapy of inflammatory TMJ diseases.
Recently, we presented an implantable piezoelectrical hearing aid transducer.
Its characteristics make it suitable for implantation in patients with sensorineural hearing loss.
The transducer transmits micromechanical vibrations instead of sound into the hearing organ.
Efficiency of the transducer implant was investigated in ten cat ears.
After determining preoperative (acoustical) BERA threshold, the middle ear was opened and the piezoelectrical transducer coupled to various ossicles or the perilymph.
BERA responses were recorded following stimulation of umbo, long incus process, stapes head, stapes foot plate, and vestibulum.
By comparing the acoustical and mechanical threshold, a correlation was found between the stimulus level of acoustical and mechanical stimulation.
An electrical transducer voltage of 1 Vrms* was equivalent to sound-pressure levels between 100 and 128 dB SPL at the tympanic membrane.
To judge hearing impression, stimulus-dependent latencies of the early acoustically and mechanically evoked potentials (waves P1 to P5) and their thresholds were analyzed.
After coupling the piezoelectrical transducer to the long incus process, latencies corresponded well to stimulation.
They were almost completely similar when the equivalent sound-pressure level of 100 dB SPL was achieved by the transducer voltage level.
Pyoderma gangrenosum was first described in 1930 by Brunsting, Goeckermann and O'Leary.
Nevertheless we found some illustrations in an atlas on dermatology, published by Marie-Nicolas Devergie in the first half of the 19th century, which appear to be pyoderma gangrenosum.
In addition to discussions of typical syphilitic affections of the skin, Devergie's "Clinique de la Maladie Syphilitique" includes illustrations of gangrenous ulcers, which appeared unexpectedly after local and systemic therapy with mercury.
Devergie interpreted those enlarging ulcers as a side effect of mercury therapy.
Thus we were able to find evidence of pyoderma gangrenosum more than 100 years before first description in 1930.
The etiology of this clinical picture is still unsettled.
The favorite postulate has been a bacterial genesis which was the subject of numerous publications until the 1960s.
Multiple-system atrophy (MSA) is characterized by progressive autonomic failure with cerebellar, pyramidal and extrapyramidal signs.
In MSA patients laryngoscopy often reveals unilateral or bilateral abductor vocal fold palsies.
However, assessment of sites of obstruction and their severity is needed.
We report our clinical experience in managing a 56-year-old, obese male MSA patient (1.76 m height, 100 kg weight, BMI 32.3 kg/m2) who was admitted for evaluation of snoring and excessive daytime sleepiness.
Endoscopy while awake demonstrated an incomplete abductor vocal fold palsy.
Polysomnography confirmed heavy snoring with arousals (11.1/h) and an RDI of 1.4/h.
Sleep efficiency was low (51.9%) due to long intermittent awake periods.
Sleep videoendoscopy of the upper airway proved the entire pharynx to be open during REM and non-REM sleep.
During inspiration fluttering movements of the vocal cords caused the snoring.
This was regularly terminated by arousals.
The further treatment is discussed.
In general, glottic snoring without daytime stridor is rare and has only been described in MSA patients.
However, certain of these patients will also be pharyngeal snorers.
The source of the sound and site of obstruction can only be diagnosed by sleep videoendoscopy.
Introduction: Homografts for valve replacement are indicated in acute valve endocarditis.
It is assumed that they possess anti-infective properties.
Homografts are an established indication in aortic valve replacement.
We present our early results with homografts for mitral valve replacement in acute endocarditis.
The surgical management of enlarged inferior turbinates has been actively debated for more than a century.
The second part of this review decribes the following techniques: laterofracture, submucous turbinectomy, concho-antropexy, partial turbinectomy, anterior turbinectomy, inferior turbinoplasty, total turbinectomy, and vidian neurectomy.
Indications, advantages, disadvantages, complications, and controversies of each treatment modalitiy are reviewed and discussed.
Partial or submucosal resection should be prefered, because there are moderate side effects and the amount of turbinate excised can be altered according the degree of symptomatology.
Total turbinectomy or vidian neurectomy are indicated if all other treatment attemps do not succeed.
Acute oxalosis is an important disorder causing serious abnormalities.
Acute oxalosis may come about by ethylene glycol poisoning; in recent years iatrogenic cases of acute oxalosis have also been described following iv treatments of naftidrofuryl, a vasodilator.
Furthermore, chronic asymptomatic intestinal oxalosis may turn symptomatic by a superimposed major load of oxalate.
Acute oxalosis results in acute renal failure; in addition oxalate-induced angiopathy may be associated with necrosis of affected tissue.
The diagnosis of acute oxalosis requires a demonstration of oxalate crystals in the urine and in other affected tissues.
In terms of therapy, hemodialysis should be used promptly in cases of ethylene glycol poisoning and a worsening of the renal function.
In cases of a secondary chronic intestinal oxalosis prophylactic measures such as maintaining an elevated urinary flow rate and prescribing oral calcium supplements will be helpful.
Generalized granuloma annulare is a rare variant of granuloma annulare affecting the trunk and extremities with a multitude of lesions.
In contrast to localized granuloma annulare, generalized granuloma annulare occurs in older patients, shows a stronger association with diabetes, and is characteristically chronic.
Like our 55-year-old patient, most patients present with papules and annular plaques; less often, macular or non-annular lesions may be encountered.
Histology often fails to show necrobiotic or necrotic connective tissue changes demarcated by a palisading granuloma.
Instead, there are diffuse dermal, band-like or nodular aggregations of histiocytes intermingled with some multinucleated giant cells and a predominantly lymphocytic infiltrate in the periphery.
Because of its special characteristics, it has been suggested that generalized granuloma annulare might constitute a separate disease entity and that it should be classed among the primary cutaneous histiocytoses as a diffuse dermal histiocytosis.
Using immunohistochemistry to determine the macrophage phenotype of the lesional histiocytes, we have shown that generalized granuloma annulare is not a cutaneous histiocytosis.
Neither MS-1 high-molecular-weight protein, a new specific marker for cutaneous non-Langerhans cell histiocytoses, nor CD1a, the well-known marker for Langerhans cells and Langerhans cell histiocytoses, is expressed by the lesional histiocytes of our patient.
In contrast, the antigen expression pattern was diagnostic for non-infectious granulomas and was highly similar to that in localized granuloma annulare.
In contrast to the successful treatment of localized granuloma annulare reported with intralesional interferon -1, systemic treatment with interferon -2b (9x106 units three times a week) was ineffective.
The aims of the study were: (1) to predict reversal time from intensive atracurium blockade; and (2) to determine the optimal time of neostigmine administration during recovery from atracurium blockade, i.e., the time at which the administration of neostigmine results in the shortest total recovery time (time from administration of last supplemental dose of atracurium to train-of-four [TOF] ratio 0.70), and at the same time results in the shortest time from administration of neostigmine to TOF ratio 0.70.
The spontaneous and neostigmine-facilitated recovery in 52 healthy women anaesthetised with thiopentone, fentanyl, droperidol, and nitrous oxide was followed.
Post-tetanic count (PTC) of TOF stimulation of the ulnar nerve and mechanomyography were used for monitoring neuromuscular transmission.
The neuromuscular blockade was induced with atracurium 0.6 mg/kg and supplemental doses of 0.15 mg/kg were given when the first twitch response in the TOF (TH1) had recovered to 20%.
Neostigmine 0.036 mg/kg body weight was given at different levels of neuromuscular blockade to 37 of the patients.
Multiple regression analyses including pre-reversal time (time from administration of the last atracurium dose to neostigmine administration), PTC, weight, and age of the patients suggest that pre-reversal time is the best predictor of reversal time: reversal time=27.3 min-(0.89xpre-reversal time [min]; (SEE=6.0 min).
If pre-reversal time is unknown, PTC can be used: reversal time=24 min-(4.5xln PTC) at time of reversal); (SEE=6.8 min).
Total recovery time was 47 min (SEM=2.0 min, n=15) in the patients allowed to recover spontaneously, and 29 min (SEM=1.2 min, n=29) in the patients reversed by neostigmine; the difference of 18 min (SE diff 2.0 min) was significant (P<0.0005).
The level of blockade indicated by PTC (1 - 24) at the time of reversal had no influence on the total recovery time.
The spontaneous recovery times from reappearance of TH1 and TH1=10% to TOF ratio 0.70 were 29.2 min (SEM=1.7 min) and 24.4 min (SEM=2.6 min), respectively.
The results suggest that pre-reversal time is the strongest predictor of reversal time when neostigmine is administered during intense atracurium blockade.
To achieve the optimal time-saving effect, neostigmine must be given 18 min (the time saved by giving neostigmine) plus 7 to 11 min (needed for neostigmine to reach its peak effect), giving a total of 25 to 29 min before TOF ratio 0.70.
As TH1 is between 1% and 10% 25 to 29 min before TOF ratio 0.70 is reached during spontaneous recovery, the optimal level of neuromuscular blockade for neostigmine administration in atracurium blockade is when TH1 is between 1% and 10%.
Reversal time can be predicted as 27.3 min-(0.89xpre-reversal time (min), and the optimal time of neostigmine administration in atracurium blockade appears to be when TH1 is 1% - 10%.
A seminar for hospital physicians in management positions (Württembergische Verwaltungs- und Wirtschaftsakademie, Stuttgart) in October 1994 illustrated the immediate relevance of W. R. Bion's book Experiences in Groups and Other Papers, published in 1961.
The aim of this article, recalling Bion's experiences in groups by presenting in seminar's leadership principles, is to show how these experiences can be applied to an understanding of the individual.
If continuous seizure activity lasts longer than 5 minutes generalized tonic-clonic seizures require prompt treatment, if significant morbidity and mortality are to be avoided.
The mortality varies (mean: 20%) depending on patient age and etiology.
Control of status epilepticus is achieved by benzodiazepines in about 80% of cases: Lorazepam is recommended due to its longer-acting effects on the central nervous system.
To maintain the anticonvulsive effect phenytoin is usually administered intravenously.
Fosphenytoin (not approved in Germany) has advantages over phenytoin, because it can be given three times more rapidly and produces fewer side effects.
The IV use of valproic acid in status epilepticus seems to be promising, but needs further evaluation.
There is no generally accepted treatment protocol for the therapy of persistent seizure activity lasting more than 60 minutes (i. e., refractory status epilepticus).
Usually phenobarbital, or general anesthesia with thiopental or pentobarbital are treatment recommendations.
In recent reports, the administration of midazolam or propofol proved to be effective and well-tolerated.
Since the life span of our society is increasing and the expectation of high functional demands is growing more and more older people take part in sports activities emphasises the necessity of early diagnosis of rotator cuff lesions and their correct treatment.
The goal of any diagnostic means should be a proper treatment of rotator cuff lesions according to the detected pathology.
New arthroscopic techniques to surgically reconstruct rotator cuff tears have brought the operative repair techniques another step further.
In cases of large and complex cuff tears the surgeon can individually select an adequate reconstruction procedure which includes anatomical-, partial-, tendon-transfer and muscle-transfer repairs.
In cases of irreparable tears with cuff-tear arthropathy and consecutive superior migration of the humeral head hemiarthroplasty or the inverse deltoid prosthesis have to be considered.
Based on clinical, radiological and arthroscopic findings we developed algorithms that will lead to the best suited procedure for a given lesion.
Almost all patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) experience symptoms of nocturnal hypoventilation during the course of the illness.
These symptoms can develop  years before death and may severely affect quality of life.
Non-invasive intermittent home mechanical ventilation (HMV) via mask is a possible palliative measure for  these symptoms, which is not often used in  Germany.
We report on our experience with HMV in 24 patients with ALS.
Our data show a good palliative effect in 17 of 24 treated patients.
Severe complications did not occur.
The mean ventilation time at present is  14 months.
Available options and their  consequences need to be discussed in detail with patients and relatives before HMV is  initiated.
Many clinical studies have been performed investigating corneal endothelial cell loss after penetrating keratoplasty using different preservation methods.
Most studies, however, included variable follow-up intervals, neglecting the dynamic cell loss over the course of time.
The aim of this study was to perform endothelial cell evaluation 5 years after penetrating keratoplasty using two different storage methods.
Primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC) is generally associated with ulcerative colitis (UC).
The disease typically progresses slowly, but ultimately, and leads to cirrhosis, liver failure or bile duct cancer.
PSC patients with simultanous ulcerative colitis are also at higher risk for colorectal cancer.
At the present time, there is no effective treatment for PSC, although preliminary data show encouraging results after treatment with ursodeoxycholic acid.
However, there are no data concerning the delay or prevention of progress of the disease with this drug, because follow-up time is not yet long enough.
Isolated bile duct strictures should be treated endoscopically.
The possible effect of proctocolectomy on the course of PSC is controversial.
Liver transplantation is the therapy of choice for PSC in its final stage.
The 5-year survival rate (89 %) is significantly better than after transplantation for other indications.
Patients with ulcerative colitis have to be followed up by lifelong colonoscopy.
Although the course of UC after transplantation is mostly asymptomatic, these patients are at higher risk for colorectal cancer.
On 3 June 1998 a high-speed train (Inter City Express, ICE) collided with a bridge at a speed of 200 km/h.
The bridge collapsed and the rear wagons of the train were pushed into it with the power of the rear engine.
The accident caused 101 deaths and 103 injuries.
Four minutes after the accident the alarm was raised, and 16 minutes after the accident the first doctor was on the scene, arriving from Celle, approx.
Severe complications after chiropractic treatments rarely occur.
They happen mostly when manipulating the atlantoaxial and the craniovertebral articulations or when not attending to the contraindications like partial dislocation and hemivertebra.
Therefore, x-ray pictures from the part of the vertebral region to be treated are inevitable and likewise the medical scientific associations demand them uniformly to minimize the risks.
Nevertheless, our case-report shows also inconspicuous radiological findings do not exclude local tumor infestation of the bones with possible deleterious results for the patient treated by the chiropractor.
In patients with painful, possibly hemorrhagic vesicles or black crusts, especially on hands/fingers or face/neck with typical history (contact to cows or feral/cats) the possibility of a cowpox/catpox infection has to be considered.
The clinical diagnosis can be confirmed with the electron microscopy; cytoplasmic inclusions may be detected histologically.
Further useful diagnostic tools are the identification of the cowpox/catpox virus by PCR or in cell culture as well as serological tests to detect virus specific antibodies.
We report the development of typical skin lesions of a cowpox/catpox infection in two female patients who had contact with cows or cats.
Recent diagnostic and therapeutic approaches are also discussed.
The laboratory findings of hemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelets are signs of an acute pregnancy complication often associated with abdominal pain and intrauterine growth retardation.
A high coincidence with symptoms of preeclampsia is observed.
The high rate of complications and the restitution of laboratory findings to normal values following cessation of pregnancy have led to the general recommendation of immediate delivery for about a decade.
However, the fact that HELLP syndrome can also occur for up to 1 week post-partum and the results of studies on prolongation of pregnancy call this former concept of management into question, in particular, since there is a high rate of hemostasiological complications after cesarean section in acute HELLP syndrome.
Because of the correlation of complications of HELLP syndrome with those of severe preeclampsia, the indication for delivery should be based on the signs of preeclampsia and additional clinical features.
The results of studies on prolongation of pregnancies in HELLP syndrome and severe preeclampsia support this concept.
Innervation of the head and neck differs from other regions of the body in certain respects.
In particular, besides the external cuneate nucleus, thick-calibre neck muscle afferents project directly, to the vestibular nuclear complex.
This projection is most prominent in segments C2 and 3 and is sparse or absent in more caudal segments.
Thus, proprioceptive neck muscle afferents gain direct access to vestibulospinal, vestibulooculomotor and other secondary or even higher order vestibular neurons that receive labyrinthine input.
Proprioceptive input via indirect spinovestibular pathways is also most prominent from C2 and 3 compared to more caudal levels.
Likewise, thin calibre, mainly nociceptive afferents from cervical segments are channelled via the parabrachial nuclei in the rostral pons to limbic structures different from the targets of thoracolumbar afferents.
It is tempting to consider these neuroantomical peculiarities relevant for the pathogenesis of the puzzling symptoms after whiplash injury.
In some recent German textbooks of pain management there is maintained that psychological dependence to opioids in pain patients is not a real problem.
The evidence for this statement is reviewed.
Real bone tumors are rarely encountered in the daily routine of radiological practice.
Therefore, for a general radiologist there is no need for a specialist knowledge on this field.
However, he should be able to distinguish benign from malignant lesions in order to avoid unnecessary biopsies.
A systematic approach towards osteolytic lesions, e. g. according to the classification of Lodwick, is mandatory.
CT and MRI are indicated to clear up the anatomy in areas of superposition artefacts in conventional radiology and to determine the inner structure of a lesion, e. g. fatty tissue, liquid/solid.
This paper highlights the advantages and disadvantages and the cost-effective use of the imaging modalities including scintigraphy in the diagnosis of bone tumors and tumor-like lesions.
Guidelines for the management of bony lesions will be given in detail.
The option and necessity for a specialist second opinion is emphasized.
During routine middle ear surgery prototypes of implantable piezoelectric hearing aid transducers were coupled to the ossicular chain of 28 patients.
Pure tone thresholds in a broad frequency range (250 Hz-8 kHz) and perception of music were the basis of psychoacoustic evaluation of the transfer properties of the prototypes in this human study.
The piezoelectric transducer reached an equivalent transducer sound-pressure level of up to 145 dB SPL and frequencies of 10 kHz.
The dynamics for music reached 32 dB, which was identical with the results of the preoperative investigations using hi-fi headsets (33 dB).
The low nonlinear distortions of around 0.1% and the frequency range up to 10 kHz are reflected in the positive evaluation of sound quality by 84% of the patients involved.
The study is the basis for realizing a piezoelectric transducer designed for routine clinical implantations.
The transducer is thought to be part of a totally implantable future hearing aid for rehabilitation of moderate and severe sensory neural hearing loss predominantly in the middle and high frequency range.
Background: Baker et al.
used a CO2 laser for blepharoplasty for the first time.
The ultrapulse CO2 laser provides a sophisticated instrument that makes more application alternatives possible in ophthalmology.
Several investigations prove that monaural acoustic deprivation induces detrimental changes in the auditory pathway.
So far the major interest focused on degenerative processes on the deprived side, while effects on the contralateral untreated side were not taken into consideration.
This ontogenetic study investigates effects of early monaural acoustic deprivation on the functional development of the acoustically evoked auditory brainstem response (ABR) in the Mongolian gerbil.
Young gerbils were deafened by a single intracochlear application of neomycin sulfate.
The ABR development on the contralateral side differed in a late developmental period from that of normally hearing animals.
These changes persisted until adulthood.
Between day 55 and day 90 a significant 5 dB decrease of the ABR thresholds and a significant shortening of the interpeak latency II-V occured.
The results confirm that a complete monaural deprivation during the sensible or critical period leads on the contralateral side to plastic or compensatory changes in the auditory brainstem.
There are estimated to be 20 million people blinded by cataracts, 80-90 % of whom live in rural areas of developing countries where expert surgical resources are scarce.
The majority of all cataract operations are still intracapsular extractions (ICCE).
Aphakic correction using spectacles is problematical in developing countries.
This study was undertaken to evaluate the safety of multiflex open loop anterior chamber intraocular lenses (AC IOLs).
Dorsal fusion with the internal fixator has become the standard treatment of instabilities and deformities of the thoracolumbar spine.
With our new device, the modular spine fixator (MSF), which has been specially designed for short-distance instrumentations, we have increasingly been treating unstable injuries of the thoracolumbar spine by one-level stabilization.
Prerequisite is an accurate evaluation of the indication, including CT and MRI to assess the involvement of the intervertebral disc and the ligamental structures.
The operative technique differs in some details from the procedure in moremulti-level instrumentations, especially concerning the application of the pedicle screws.
The instrumentation is always combined with posterior allogenic bone grafting.
Since the beginning of 1993 we also perform anterior autogenic transpedicular bone grafting.
Between Januar 1991 and July 1995, 57 one-level stabilizations with the MSF were performed.
Of the 57 patients operated on 39, 27 men and 12 women, with an average age of 41 years, have had a clinical and radiographic follow-up examination so far, on average, 27 months after the accident.
Seventeen patients were completely free of pain and 17 patients (were only) sensivite to weather changes or had minor pain during great physical stress.
Five patients had pain even during slight physical stress or at rest.
The preoperatively measured Cobb angle was 15.1  ° on average, after the operation 5.2  °, and at the time of the follow-up examination amounted to 8.1  °.
The patients' range of motion was normal.
Only five minor complications have been seen.
No implant fatigue failure has been noted in this series.
We derive from these results that, for correct indications, one-level stabilization can be performed successfully and should be firmly established in the operative treatment of unstable fractures of the thoracolumbar spine.
Between May 1995 and March 1996 we were able to diagnose and remove glomus tumors of the left nasal cavity from three female patients.
Ages of the patients were 9, 36 and 74 years.
All patients suffered from a frequent epistaxis and all were extremely sensitive to the slightest nasal touch.
One patient reported breathing difficulties due to nasal congestion.
Examination revealed a tumor that filled the entire nasal cavity.
The method of choice in treatment of these tumors is surgical removal.
Hemangiopericytoma, non-chromaffin paraganglioma,  hidradenoma, cavernous hemangioma and nevus cell nevi have to be excluded by histology and immunohistochemical techniques.
From a clinical perspective the bleeding  septal polyp (granuloma telangiectaticum sive pyogenicum sive pediculatum) has to be considered because it often comes from Kieselbachi's plexus, has a mushroom-like appearance and bleeds slightly.
Background: Gynaecological surgery including laparoscopy is frequently associated with PONV.
Therefore, choosing an anaesthetic with only little side effects in operations eligible for outpatient surgery is at least as important as applying anaesthetics that enable fast-tracking.
The reliability of continuous fibreoptic oximetry in cerebral venous blood and its correlation with intracranial and cerebral perfusion pressures (pressure-volume curve) were examined in an experimental porcine study.
In a population-based study of 110 women between 53 and 82 years of age (mean age 64.5 +/- 7.9 years) static posturography data were compared to functional items of gait and balance in common geriatric mobility scales.
Posturographic data of double-stance with eyes open and eyes closed (DSEO; DSEC) did not differ from those of a group of healthy women previously tested for intact nervous system function.
The total neuromuscular score - roughly corresponding to the well-known Tinetti score - did not correlate to the posturographic measures.
DSEC correlated with the items "rapid walking" and "single-stance left leg".
Age, vision, and neuropsychologic test results correlated with DSEO, "rapid walking", "single-stance right leg", "single-stance left leg", and "walking a figure eight".
Multiple linear regression confirmed the impact of age, vision, DSEO, and DSEC on "rapid walking" with a 34% variance explanation.
Posturographic parameters did predict other selected gait and balance items.
When used in older women living independently in the community, parameters of static posturography reflect to some extent the functional disabilities of gait and balance.
The ocular surface epithelia with the tear film as a unit provide clear vision and comfort and serve as the first line of defense.
It is important to understand how ocular surface health is maintained and how ocular surface failure occurs.
Furthermore, it is timely to summarize new information concerning action mechanisms and clinical uses of amniotic membrane transplantation for ocular surface reconstruction.
When appropriately processed and preserved, amniotic membrane as a native matrix can be used as a graft to restore conjunctival surfaces following removal of lesions such as pterygium, tumor, scar, symblepharon, and conjunctivochalasis.
It can also be used as a graft to restore corneal surfaces suffering from limbal stem-cell deficiency.
For partial limbal deficiency, amniotic membrane alone is frequently sufficient, while for total limbal deficiency it needs to be combined with limbal stem-cell transplantation with or without corneal transplantation.
When used as a graft or patch, amniotic membrane can facilitate healing of persistent corneal ulcers and recurrent corneal erosion and reduce corneal haze following keratectomy.
Reported data indicate that amniotic membrane transplantation facilitates rapid healing with recovery of a normal epithelial phenotype in the epithelium and reduces inflammation, vascularization, and scarring in the stroma.
Purpose: Evalution of MRI in radiotherapy of humeroscapular periarthritis.
Background: Presentation of current data and knowledge in the field of experimental and clinical neuroendocrinology.
According to the recommendations of the German Ophthalmological Sociaty (DOG), PRK in myopic patients between -1.0 dpt and -6.0 dpt is a scientific acknowled treatment.
The risks of the treatment, however, increase in myopia above -6.0 dpt.
Introduction: Improved socio-economic conditions have led to an increase of adult height during the last century.
If excessive height is regarded as a serious psychological handicap, final height can be reduced by early and high doses treatment with sexual steroids.
This therapy influences pubertal development and growth of healthy adolescents.
For that reason patients should be carefully selected, taking into account the benefits and possible side effects.
Colour measurements were performed on powdery substances of whitish to slightly yellow colouring (cocaine samples of different composition) in order to give an unequivocal optical description of the samples and relate them to control samples.
The measurements were carried out with a spectrophotometer (Carl-Zeiss-Jena GmbH, MCS 400) using a halogen bulb as light source (standard illuminant D65).
Colorimetric classification was made on the basis of the CIE-L*a*b*-values.
The examination showed that specimens of similar or different chemical composition which could not be distinguished macroscopically revealed characteristic differences in the CIE-L*a*b*-measures.
The method gives a first clue for orientation within a few minutes when comparing substances in specimens of different origin.
Eighty-five patients with grade 2 or grade 3 sprains of the acromioclavicular (AC) joint were evaluated clinically and radiographically 32 months after injury.
Group I included 34 patients with grade 2 sprains (Tossy II) and group II included 51 patients with grade 3 injuries (Tossy III).
In group I, 15 patients were treated surgically (group I a) and 19 patients were treated conservatively (group I b), while in group II, 41 patients were treated surgically (group II a) and 10 patients were treated conservatively (group II b).
At surgery open reduction and transarticular fixation of the AC joint with Kirschner wires was performed.
Conservative treatment included the initial use of a sling or a knapsack bandage and early performance of range-of-motion exercises.
Shoulder function was assessed according to the score devised by Constant and Murley.
In both groups, 97 of 100 possible points (minimum 72, maximum 100) were obtained after conservative and after surgical treatment.
Nine of 10 patients (90%) with grade 3 sprains (group IIb) had more pronounced displacement and increased mobility of the lateral end of the clavicle after conservating treatment.
After surgery, dislocation and increased horizontal, mobility of the lateral end of the clavicle occurred in 18 (44%) of 41 patients with grade 3 sprains (group II a P<0.0001).
However, these findings did not correlate with the functional outcome.
At follow-up there was a significant increase in degenerative changes seen on radio-graphs (P<0.035) in all patients.
Again these findings did not correlate with the functional outcome.
More degenerative radiological changes were observed in patients who had undergone surgery (P<0.003).
Patients with grade 2 sprains were more frequently restricted in sporting activity after surgery (P<0.05).
Patients with grade 3 sprains who were treated surgically complained of pain more frequently (P<0.01), and they returned to work later than patients who were treated conservatively after grade 3 sprains.
An additional rehabilitation program guided by a physiotherapist seemed to have no impact on the functional outcome.
A total of 56 patients were treated by surgery.
Among these patients 11 complications occurred, requiring five additional surgical procedures.
Among 29 conservatively treated patients, only in 1 patient did subacromially located arthritic changes of the AC joint have to be removed.
Macular amyloidosis (MA) and lichen amyloidosus (LA) are the two major variants of the primary cutaneous amyloidoses which present with severe and therapy resistent itching.
Various therapeutic modalities such as antihistamines, intralesional injection or topical application of corticosteroids, etretinate, UVB irradiation and dermoabrasion have been employed with variable success.
Recently, in a few case reports authors have observed encouraging beneficial clinical effects by using topical dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO).
In our study 10 patients with either MA or LA or biphasic amyloidosis were treated with a 50% solution of DMSO in water.
9 of them showed marked clinical improvement at the end of 6-20 weeks of treatment.
Degranulation and depletion of the mast cells by DMSO is the most probable explanation for the rapid improvement of itching beginning within the first week of therapy.
Remarkable flattening of the lichenoid papules which was obtained within 11 weeks of treatment is interpreted as a result of the improvement of itching and the related scratch effect.
Histological examination after treatment revealed no disappearance of amyloid deposits in the papillary dermis.
In the follow-up period relapses of itching and papules were observed.
Therefore further studies are needed to find out the optimal procedure of therapy.
As early as 1974, Brian advocated the prone position for ventilated patients [5].
He suggested that this position might enhance ventilation of the dorsal parts of the lungs, thereby improving oxygenation.
These considerations have been confirmed by several experimental and clinical studies [1, 6, 13, 17].
Better secretion removal, decreased intrapulmonary shunting, and an increased FRC are thought to be responsible for the observed improvement of oxygenation.
However, the prone position never became very popular in the clinical treatment of the adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
Routine performance of thoracic CT scans in ARDS patients demonstrated preferential distribution of pathological densities in the dependent lung areas.
The prone position therefore could possibly benefit these patients, as shown by two recent studies [8, 11].
The aim of our study was to evaluate the influence of repeatedly turning the patient to the prone position on gas exchange and thoracic CT findings in multiple-trauma patients.
Seven ventilated intensive care patients with severe ARDS (Murray Score >2.5 [9], Quotient >0.7 [4], mean airway pressure >18 cm H2O, thoracic CT scan showing dorsal atelectases) were included in the study.
Patients were turned from the supine to the prone position at 12-h intervals using an air-cushion bed (Mediscus, Austria).
Redistribution of dystelectatic or atelectatic dependent lung areas was verified by means of repeated thoracic CT scans (Figs.
The patients were intermittently turned for 6.5  +/-  1.1 days.
The course of gas exchange is shown in Figs.
Initially, improvement of the respiratory quotient could only be achieved during prone positioning, from the 2nd day in the supine position as well.
Intrapulmonary shunting showed a similar trend (Figs.
No significant changes in cardiovascular parameters could be observed.
Control thoracic CT scans showed uniform reduction of atelectases in dependent lung areas (Figs.
The inspiratory fraction of oxygen could be reduced significantly as of the 2nd day (Fig.
Constant levels of positive end-expiratory pressure and tidal volume were associated with decreasing mean and plateau airway pressures (Fig.
Repeatedly turning the patient to the prone position produced long-lasting improvement of arterial oxygenation, which persists up to the end of the weaning process.
This is in good accordance with other studies [1, 2, 6, 8, 11, 13, 17], however, this is the first study to report an observation period of more than 6 days of repeatedly turning the patient.
These positive effects on gas exchange can be attributed to sudden improvement of the ventilation-perfusion ratio within the lung areas that become dependent after turning to the prone position.
Due to reduced hydrostatic pressure [11] and relative hyperventilation [7, 16], previously collapsed alveoli are recruited in the lung areas that become non-dependent after turning to the prone position.
After a gynecological operation under therapy with unfractionated and low molecular weight heparin, a 63 year old patient developed right-sided ascending pelvic thrombosis with multiple pulmonary embolism and infarction pneumonia, septic-toxic circulatory failure, and thrombocytopenia.
Heparin-associated thrombocytopenia (HAT) type II was diagnosed.
Because of contraindications against thrombolysis a cava-filter was implanted, heparin therapy was stopped, and anticoagulation with recombinant hirudin was started.
Inspite of this, an arterial thrombosis of the A. femoralis superficialis developed and had to be treated surgically.
From this time on, no further thromboembolic complications were noticed.
Overlapping coumarin therapy was begun.
Due to ubiquitous coumarin-necrosis, rapid progressive toxic circulatory failure with disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) developed two days after terminating hirudin therapy necessitating high dose catecholamine therapy.
A second course of hirudin resulted in complete restitution of the coumarin-necrosis without the need for re-operation.
Subsequent coumarin-therapy, which was gradually increased over two weeks, was without further complications.
Thus, hirudin appears to be a new and safe alternative to a therapy with the heparinoid danaparoid in HAT type II with fulminant thromboembolic complications and especially in coumarin-necrosis with critical septic-toxic circulatory failure and DIC.
A prospective process-analysis evaluating organizational, medical and medical-technical alterations and real-time-documentation during out-of-hospital resuscitations (n=71) was performed due to the definitions of the "Utstein-Style".
The gaseous radical nitric oxide (NO) is catalyzed by conversion of L-arginine to L-citrulline by one cytokine inducible form (iNOS), which becomes active only within hours after the inducing event, and by two constitutively expressed forms, endothelial (eNOS) and neuronal (nNOS), which are regulated by the cytosolic concentration of free Ca2+.
Brain nNOS is physiologically present in discrete populations of neurons, which are all excited by glutamate via the ionotropic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, which controls a Ca2+ channel.
After its diffusion into the extraneuronal space, NO may activate in neurons, which as a rule do not stain for NOS, soluble guanylyl cyclase and formation of cGMP as an intracellular messenger.
Beyond that, NO is important as a feedback regulator of glutamatergic excitation.
NO as a nitrosylating agent enhances disulfide bonding of vicinal sulfhydryl (thiol) groups of the redox modulatory site of the NMDA receptor complex and thereby down-regulates its Ca2+ channel activity.
Histochemically studies have revealed the presence of large number of NOS containing neurons in the magnocellular and parvocellular subdivisions of hypothalamic nuclei.
Numerous studies conform to the view that NO participates in the control of many different neurosecretory processes, especially of the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurosecretory system.
The redox-modulatory site of the NMDA receptor appears, therefore, as a critical structure in the control of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis.
Moreover, glucocorticoids augment neuronal excitotoxicity by increasing the expression of glutamate receptors and inhibition of glutamate reuptake.
In attempting to explain the many conflicting results obtained in studies with NO, it may be worthwhile to consider that the actual redox-environment of distinct loci of the brain may determine the final function of NO, acting either as a transmitter or neuromodulator or, in the worst case, causing neurodestruction.
It seems likely that any kind of stress by altering the ratio of reduced vs oxidized thiols within the central nervous system influences neuronal excitability, with NO working either as an amplifier or as a feedback regulator of neuronal excitation or inhibition, which may alter acutely or chronically, among others, the homeostasis of a given neurosecretory system.
Purpose: To study early and late findings of macular retinal thickness in patients with hypotony following filtering procedures.
Even in the era of coronary stenting, acute coronary artery occlusion continues to represent a significant limitation of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA).
Despite application of heparin and aspirin, abrupt vessel closure still occurs in 2-8%, depending on the definition applied.
Especially patients receiving PTCA for acute coronary syndromes are at high risk for abrupt vessel closure.
The formation of an intracoronary thrombus plays a central role in the pathogenesis of abrupt vessel closure.
Dipyridamole induces dilatation of coronary arteries and prevents platelet aggregation by a mechanism that differs from that of aspirin.
The primary purpose of the study was to evaluate whether adjunctive local intracoronary therapy with dipyridamole could reduce the incidence of coronary artery occlusion following PTCA.
Secondary endpoints were defined as myocardial infarction, necessity for bypass grafting, and death.
The intravesical instillation of BCG (Bacillus Calmette-Guérin) in cases of relapsed superficial bladder cancer is an acknowledged kind of prophylaxis.
It is uncertainly up to now whether a verification of the immune systems competence is necessary.
The recommendations in this problem are very different.
In conclusion to the recent literature we think that a verification of the immune system before BCG installation in the urinary bladder has not a prognostic value.
Additionally, the legal obligingness of this immunotest is doubtful.
Discoid meniscus is one of the commonest anatomical variations of the meniscus.
There is at the moment no consensus on the aetiology of discoid meniscus.
According to Watanabe three types can be differentiated: the complete form, the incomplete form and the hypermobile Wrisberg form.
Discoid meniscus frequently remains asymptomatic and thus requires no treatment.
Partial meniscectomy is recommended for treatment of the stable form, while for the unstable forms total meniscectomy is generally regarded as the treatment of choice, since the instability means that rupture of residual meniscus would be possible.
A fourteen years old girl showed the classic signs of acrocephalosyndactyly I: dysostosis craniofacialis with hypertelorism, exophthalmus, strabism, amblyopia and cleft palate as well as syndactyly of the fingers and toes.
The feet showed on both side a 6  cm long horny band.
Since the twelfth year of life, she had suffered from papulo-pustular acne with many comedomes.
Her menstruation started one year later.
At time of her birth, her father was 54 years old, and her mother 36 years old.
Two elder siblings are healthy.
The inheritance of acrocephalosyndactyly I is usually autosomal dominant, but sporadic cases are frequent.
Objective: Cognitive dysfunction is a known problem after operations and may be especially relevant in the elderly.
The aim of this international multicentre study was to investigate short- and long-term cognitive dysfunction in elderly patients and to elucidate the relevance of hypoxaemia and hypotension as causative factors.
Autosomal recessive inheritance, intrauterine growth retardation, short stature, microcephaly, distinct facial dysmorphism, psychomotoric retardation, and often uncharacterized eczematous skin lesions distinguish the rare Dubowitz syndrome.
Here a pair of monozygotic twins with Dubowitz syndrome and clear-cut atopic eczema is presented.
Humeral shaft fractures can be treated either conservatively or operatively.
Plating of the humerus is the established operative method, but recently interest has also been focussed on intramedullary nailing.
Fifty-nine cases of humeral fractures treated with intramedullary nailing (Seidel/Marchetti-Vicenzi/Prévot) from January 1991 to December 1995 (44 fractures after trauma, 11 pathological fractures, 3 pseudarthroses, 1 re-fracture).
Closed reduction in 55/59 cases.
One infection (soft tissue); 2/48 pseudarthrosis (indication for nailing: pseudarthrosis!).
No iatrogenic palsy of the radial nerve.
Functional postoperative treatment in all 44 cases of humeral fractures after adequate trauma.
One poor functional result: periarticular ossification after retrograde nailing, possibly connected with long-term respiratory treatment after trauma.
Treatment of humeral shaft fractures by intramedullary nailing is favoured in our clinic (low complication rates, excellent or good functional results, limited approaches, small scars).
Proximal fractures should be treated by the Seidel nail (stable interlocking of the proximal fragment); very distal fractures need Prévot nailing (reaming of condylar canals).
All other fractures of the humeral shaft can be treated by each of the implants used in our clinic.
Pathological fractures are an excellent indication for intramedullary stabilization.
These patients benefit from stable fixation without intense surgical trauma.
Pseudarthrosis, according to our limited experience, seems to require plating plus bone grafting.
Plating is also recommended if revision of the radial nerve becomes necessary.
2-4 % of vascular injuries need operative reconstruktion.
In polytraumatized patients the rate is even 10 %.
Arterial vascular repair should precede venous reconstruction and orthopaedic stabilization due to limb threatening ischemia.
Penetration or blunt vascular trauma result either in acute blood loss, ischemia or compartmental compression.
Reperfusion syndrom leads to vital threat of patient.
Clinical assessment, measurement of limb pressures using a Doppler device and use of duplex ultrasonography are reliable adjuncts in the rapid evaluation.
Arteriography is rarely indicated and should be spared for patients with abnormal physical examination.
Minimizing ischemia (6-8 h) is an important factor in maximizing limb salvage.
Vascular repair include direct anastomosis or lateral suture repair mostly combined with primary shortening of the extremity.
In most cases autogenous vein graft is required.
Rethrombosis, arteriovenous fistula and pseudoaneurysms are possible complications.
Stabilisation of the fracture has priority over vascular reconstruction.
The initial steps to success are surgical debridement, adequate bony stabilization mostly by external fixation, revascularisation of vascular injury, immediate fascial decompression and early soft-tissue reconstruction.
The best results are obtained when a multidiciplinary approach is used combining expertise in orthopedic surgery, vascular surgery and plastic surgery.
In secondary prevention, statins are cost-effective and even more cost-effective than other lipid lowering drugs.
Statins are especially favorable in patients with previous myocardial infarction compared to those with angina pectoris.
For secondary prevention of coronary heart disease, statins should be administered generously.
In primary prevention, statins are effective but not cost-efficient.
Unfavorable results have to be expected especially in premenopausal women, younger patients, and in those with a low risk factor profile.
For population based primary prevention, only dietary measures can be advocated; however, apart from a serious lack of compliance their efficiency has not yet been proven.
Preventive measures have their own prize; in general they are considered not to prevent coronary heart disease but retard it.
Therefore, such therapeutic interventions can be assumed not to reduce but rather to increase the "direct" medical costs.
Furthermore, successful prevention of coronary heart disease leads, due to life-prolongation, to an increase in people out of work and in disabled patients due to age and/or disease.
Therefore, an increase especially of the "indirect" costs for unemployment, pension, nursing homes, etc.
Background: There are three fields where the the biochemical cardiac markers creatine kinase (CK), its isoenzyme MB (CK-MB), myoglobin, and troponin can play an important role: (1) the primary diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction (AMI), (2) identification of patients suffering from unstable angina with minor myocardial damage (MMD) and consecutively increased risk for major cardiovascular events, and (3) assessment of coronary reperfusion after intravenous thrombolysis.
MRSA/MRSE infections are a major problem in hospitals and although in orthopaedic units the incidence is low awareness of this problem is necessary.
Once a MRSA strain has been isolated the strict use of the hygiene precautions has to be applied to avoid epidemic spread of the strain.
The patient has to be isolated.
The staff has to use gloves and gowns whilst treating the patient.
A antimicrobiel hand wash solution has to be used after taking off the gloves and before leaving the isolation room.
Patient and staff have to be informed about the pathogenity and the way of infection spread so that infection precaution rules are fulfilled.
Antibiotics should only be used in clinically well defined cases and the overall use of antibiotics should be reduced to lower the incidence of MRSA/E isolates.
The problems of an MRSA case and its successful treatment are demonstrated.
A microphone constructed for implantation in the posterior wall of the auditory canal and a piezoelectric transducer serving as the main components of an implantable hearing aid were temporally implanted in five patients during middle ear surgery under local anesthesia.
The microphone was positioned beneath the skin of the auditory canal such that it completely covered the microphone membrane.
The vibratory element of the transducer was coupled to the malleus in four patients with normal ossicular chains and directly to the stapes in one patient with missing incus.
The microphone and transducer were electrically connected with an external battery-driven signal amplifier.
Speech material and music were presented in the operation room at a sound level of 65 dB SPL under free-field conditions.
The patients had to estimate the quality of speech, music, and their own voice as well as the effects of bone-conducting noises.
All patients were able to hear with the system.
An intraoperative talk without vision contact was possible without any problems, as was understanding of numerals ("Freiburger Zahlentest").
Perception of music was judged as "clear and undistorted with all broadband component."
The estimation was also valid for one patient with a sensorineural hearing loss.
One patient declared the music to be "a little of unnatural."
Bone-conducted sound was estimated as normal in two patients, better than without an implant in one patient with sensorineural hearing loss, and "somewhat metallic" in another patient.
Hearing the own voice was considered "normal" in two cases "monotonous" in one case, and "a little bit roaring" in another case.
An amplification factor that can be technically realized in an implantable hearing aid was necessary for one of the patients with sensorineural hearing loss to perceive music at a pleasant volume.
On the basis of this study, essential requirements for the construction of a fully implantable hearing aid are fulfilled.
We report a patient with metachromatic leukodystrophy (MLD) with a first manifestation of homicide.
On admission the patient showed a hebephrenia-like syndrom with inappropriate affect, thought disorder and  behavioral changes.
Magnetic resonance  tomography (MRT) findings suggested a  diagnosis of MLD, which was confirmed by a decreased activity of leucocyte arylsulfatase A and an excessive urinary sulfatide excretion.
The cervical spondylotic myelopathy is the most frequent spinal dysfunction.
Its spontaneous course is very variable, from progress to stagnation.
This makes prognosis and decision-making difficult for conservative or operative treatment.
The authors attempt to provide some basis for decision-making by observing the individual course of neural dysfunction, consideration of morphometric data and the use of functional scores.
To advise a patient, the outcome of conservative and operative treatment as described in the literature has to be considered, as well as the possible complications.
The advantages and disadvantages of surgery from the anterior and posterior approach are discussed.
Operative planning according to the individual condition is suggested.
Operative techniques of anterior decompression and fusion are contrasted to laminoplasties.
Subject: In a 7;11 year old boy with trichotillomania (ICD-10 F63.3), attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) (ICD-10 F90.1), and subclinical minimal cerebral dysfunction, Methylphenidate (Ritalin) medication resulted in a remarkable improvement: unexspected interruption of trichotillomania with regrowth of hair.
An essential feature of the known procedures for the analysis of the ECG signal is the splitting of the ECG into individual parameters which are subsequently processed in defined decision trees, neuronal networks or statistical procedures to diagnostic information.
The correctness of the diagnostic statements thus substantially depends on the suitable selection and the exact determination of the individual criteria.
The analysis algorithm and the expert knowledge are closely linked due to the procedure.
This paper presents a new procedure or the evaluation of signals of medical sensor systems by the example of the ECG.
Unlike the methods used up to now, this procedure is not based on an ever more profound splitting of the ECG signal into individual features.
Furthermore, analysis algorithm and knowledge base are separated from each other.
The consideration underlying the procedure is that two ECGs whose leads show identical or very similar signal patterns indicate identical or at least very similar cardiological diagnoses.
As this assumption is the basis of medical experience, it should be possible to compare the signal patterns of the leads of an unknown ECG with those of the leads of the reference ECGs from a database and to draw conclusions for the diagnosis of the unknown ECG.
For this purpose, those ECGs are searched in an ECG database whose leads show greatest agreement with the signal pattern of the unknown ECG.
The function of the method was established with the aid of the ECG signal database CARDIODAT with 249 ECGs for the diagnostic groups: infarcts and healthy reference persons from a data inventory of 550 ECGs.
It can be seen from the results that the presented procedure which is based on signal pattern recognition is a new approach to deriving diagnostic information from the ECG signal at least for the diagnostic group of myocardial infarcts.
Purpose: The technical conditions, the optimized scanning protocols and the facilities of virtual endoscopy (VE) are presented in an overview.
During a 4-week ambulatory cardiacc rehabilitation program, 262 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), 235 men and 27 women, 53.6+/-10.2 years, performed 30.5+/-2,9 exercise units.
Before and after the rehabilitation program exercise, capacity was assessed by bicycle ergometry.
There was a significant (p<0.001) increase in the maximum exercise capacity at the end of the program (105.3+/-32.3 vs. 121.9+/-37.3 W).
Physical work capacity on the 2.0 mmol lactate level improved (p<0.001) from 72.2+/-23.5 to 86.4+/-25.8 W, on the 2.5 mmol/l level (p<0.001) from 83.5+/-23.2 to 97.4+/-26.4 W, and on the 3.0 mmol/l level (p<0.001) from 93.1+/-23.0 to 106.6+/-26.1 W. Despite enhanced performance, heart rate remained unaltered on the 2.0, 2.5, and 3.0 mmol/l lactate level.
Furthermore, ergometric performance on predefined heart rate levels was significantly (p<0.001) increased: 85/min: from 56.0+/-24.1 to 65.8+/-24.5 W; 90/min: from 62.0+/-27.3 to 71.2+/-26 W; 95/min: from 67.2+/-26.4 to 77.5+/-27.6 W; 100/min: from 71.1+/-29.6 to 80.6+/-28.1 W; 105/min: from 69.8+/-26.2 to 81.9+/-28.2 W and 110/min: from 73.6+/-28.9 to 90.4+/-29.4 W. The results demonstrate that physical performance in patients with CAD was improved by our novel ambulatory cardiac rehabilitation program.
This improvement included an increase in maximum as well as endurance work capacity; furthermore, this increase was accompanied by a decrease in resting and exercise heart rates.
The results demonstrate an absolute increase of physical performance, more importantly an increase of physical performance at defined lactate levels in the presence of unchanged heart rates mediated by the rehabilitation program.
Thus, this increase was independent of motivational factors in the patients and/or the investigators during the re-exercise test.
On the contrary, our data demonstrate that it is based on an improvement of aerobic endurance capacity associated with a therapeutically beneficial significant decrease of heart rate for a defined workload.
The effects were independent of pharmacological influences (e.g., -receptor antagonists).
These findings are of clinical importance with respect to reduction of myocardial oxygen consumption in patients with CAD.
Newborn screening programs for inborn errors of metabolism are well established in industrialized countries.
Missed cases may be not only due to errors in specimen collection and laboratory errors but also to failures in adequate follow up.
We report the case of a now 4-year-old girl whose classical phenylketonuria was diagnostically missed in the course of follow-up procedures of a pathological screening result 1067 µmol/l 17,6 mg% phenylalanine.
The separation of whole blood into components is the state-of-the-art in transfusion of allogeneic blood.
The main reasons are the negative effects of the buffy coat and the need for FFP.
Nevertheless, especially in Germany whole blood is being rejected more and more even as autologous blood.
However, most of the negative effects of the buffy coat do not apply to autologous blood.
Additionally, these patients usually do not develop coagulation disorders and therefore do not need plasma as a hemostatic component.
On the other hand, separation into components of autologous blood leads to an increase of costs and to logistic problems that restrict autologous blood predeposit to a few institutions.
Therefore, we have reviewed the literature in order to find a scientific basis for this.
We analysed all articles listed by MEDLINE during the last 12 years that dealt with the quality of whole blood or red cell concentrates.
In addition, all references were included that contributed relevant information to the topic.
A total of 135 original articles, abstracts, reviews, letters or editorials were analysed that referred to standard preparations and storage media.
In 48 papers the in vivo red cell survival was studied.
28 of which fulfilled the prerequisites to be included into a meta-analysis.
The following in vitro parameters were also evaluated: pH, potassium load of the units, ATP and DPG concentration of the red cells.
Whole blood (resuspended in CPDA-1) and red cell units (stabilized in CPDA-1 or additive solutions) with a different buffy coat or leucocyte content have comparable pH values and red cell 2,3-DPG and ATP concentrations at the end of the approved storage time.
The potassium load of a whole blood unit appears to be higher than red cell concentrates, but this is to some extent caused by the higher plasma content of whole blood and is not thought to be a clinically relevant problem for patients receiving only a few units.
A number of studies demonstrate that dependent upon the leucocyte content of a red cell unit, leucocyte metabolites and enzymes are released and accumulate during storage.
A detrimental influence on the integrity of the red cell membrane was found in several in vitro studies.
Nevertheless, a significant improvement in red cell survival by leucocyte reduction was detected by only one group.
Undoubtedly, non-hemolytic febrile transfusion reactions (NHFTR) are generally caused by an antibody-antigen interaction due to the transfusion of allogeneic buffy coat.
On the other hand, there is some evidence that non-specific immunological mechanisms such as the release of histamine or cytokines are also capable of causing NHFTR.
Thus, these reactions are expected to occur in autologous blood transfusion.
However, so far, there are no data about the frequency and severity of these reactions and whether they are more likely to emerge after transfusion of blood units with a particular preparation.
Blood transfusions can cause septic complications due to bacterial contamination of the transfused units.
These fatal but rare complications may be reduced by pre-storage filtration of blood, but there is no indication that buffy coat reduction is effective.
Three cases with septic complications have been reported after autologous transfusion, in two of which red cell concentrates (at least one was free of buffy coat) had been used.
Thus, there is no justification for the conclusion that the risk of septic complications is increased by transfusion of whole blood.
After all, whole blood and red cell concentrates exhibit only minor differences in relevant in vitro parameters.
Hence, a higher incidence of adverse effects following the transfusion of autologous whole blood compared to autologous red cell concentrations is unlikely.
Therefore, the 24 h in vivo recovery is considered to be the most valid criterion to assess the quality of red cell preparations.
Physical therapy can support geriatric rehabilitation in contributing to better health status, mobility, and quality of life.
However, the central focus of this contribution is not on illness-specific aspects of physical therapy but on power and stamina training.
These two training methods are of special importance for geriatric rehabilitation since most patients are admitted due to related problems and these two methods do imply specific risk factors for the rehabilitation process.
The spectrum of physical adaptation processes supported by power and stamina training is described and scientifically evaluated.
Even in higher age groups positive training effects are possible.
Adequate usage of these training methods contributes to increased competence and a minimization of risks in daily life.
The arthroscopic extraarticular Bankart procedure tries to imitate the open Bankart procedure.
An anterior-inferior transmuscular approach through the subscapular muscle permits to implant self-locking tacks into the anterior inferior third of the glenoid rim.
The extraarticular location of the implants makes a superomedial capsular shift possible, if required.
A total of 257 arthroscopic repairs following traumatic recurrent anterior shoulder dislocation have been carried out between 1992 and 1996.
177 patients were treated only with bioabsorbable Suretac device.
Clinical and radiological follow up was possible in 165 patients.
According to the Rowe score 69,7 % were classified as excellent, 10,9 % as good, 9,7 % fair and 9,7 % poor.
Postoperative complications: the recurrence rate was 9,7 %, allergic reactions representing a foreign body reaction to the synthetic material were seen in 5 cases (3 %) and a frozen shoulder in 6 cases 3,6 %).
61 % of the patients involved in overhead or contact sports returned to their preoperative sport activities.
Contrast-enhanced 3D MR angiography permits comprehensive assessment of the arterial system in the chest, abdomen und lower extremities.
The method combines intravenous bolus application of a non-nephrotoxic, paramagnetic, extracellular contrast agent with the acquisition of a fast 3D data set.
High contrast between the vascular lumen and surrounding tissues, inherent three-dimensionality and the ability to collect image data in the chest and abdomen under apnea conditions all contribute to excellent image quality.
Contrast-enhanced 3D MRA is being employed in many centers throughout the world for the evaluation of various arterial pathologies.
This review provides a technical overview and critically discusses the clinical applications in the chest, abdomen and lower extremities based upon the available literature and several clincial examples.
The indications for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) on prosthetic heart valve recipients remain critical.
A generalized contraindication for MRI is doubtful.
Some diagnostic questions such as interests in pathologies of the posterior cranial fossa, spinal abscesses, and internal derangements for the knee, strongly recommend the advantages of MRI versus all other radiological diagnostic techniques.
MRI can directly affect patients with prosthetic valves in three ways by: 1) movement or dislodgment of the prosthesis, 2) heating, and 3) arrhythmias induced by electric currents, and indirectly by distortion of the image and its subsequent misinterpretation.
Present literature that concerns the safety considerations of current values appears to be incomplete.
Therefore, a survey of twenty-five valve manufacturers with regard to compatibility, safety or contraindication for MRI on their respective prosthetic heart valves was performed in 1998.
Those manufacturers who distribute most of the valves in Europe confirmed the safety of MRI.
However, some gave their assurances based on inadequate data, or assigned all responsibility to the physician.
Some companies did not give any assurance for MRI safety or failed to respond to our enquiry.
Two valve manufacturers warned against performing MRI on certain prostheses.
Based on our 1998 questionnaire, the technical issues, the clinical circumstances, the prerequisites and criteria for and the definition of safety standards for MRI on prosthetic heart valve recipients are presented in this paper.
Argyrophilic grain disease (AGD) is a frequently occurring degenerative illness of the aging human brain.
It is accompanied by progressive pathological alterations of the cytsokeleton which are traceable to an abnormal phosphorylation of the microtubule associated tau protein.
Histologically, it is possible with the help of suitable staining techniques to identify pathognomonic spindle-shaped cellular inclusions (argyrophilic grains).
These cellular inclusions display a typical cortical as well as subcortical distribution pattern.
The goal of the present study is the retrospective evaluation of the clinical findings from 53 individuals with neuropathologically demonstrable AGD-related changes of the brain.
Nearly one-half of the cases (49%) was classifiable as demented in accordance with DSM IV-criteria.
Moreover, the frequency of the dementia increased significantly in relation to the growing severity of the AGD-associated pathological cytoskeletal degeneration.
These results confirm the assumption that AGD can cause degenerative changes ranging from cognitive impairment all the way to dementia.
They also underscore the necessity of further prospective studies pertaining to the clinical aspects of this still enigmatic disease.
The major problems in the treatment of open fractures with high blood loss are hypothermia acidosis and coagulopathy.
By improving the standards of polytrauma management and using massive transfusion systems, which should help to avoid those complications, the indication for primary limb salvage under hypovolemic shock conditions is greatly increased.
The following case of an grade 3 open fracture of the femur with severe soft-tissue damage, including vascular lesions, with consecutive massive transfusion, should demonstrate that the cardiac-respiratory system can still be stabilized, even if a surgical solution seems impossible.
Annular elastolytic giant cell granuloma is mostly found in middle aged women in skin areas exposed to sunlight.
Our 17-year-old female patient had a widespread reddish-brown lesion on the abdomen that met the histological criteria for annular elastolytic giant cell granuloma.
However, the clinical findings and the localization were uncommon.
UV light was excluded as a trigger.
Other, still unknown, factors that might change antigenicity of elastic fibres must be considered.
Spontaneous resolution suggests a transient influence of such factors.
Differential diagnosis includes skin disorders with elastolysis; discrimination especially from mid-dermal elastolysis is not well defined.
Traumatic instability of the sternoclavicular joint is a rare diagnosis.
It is usually treated by different bandaging techniques without the possibility of early functional aftercare.
In the period betweeen 1 January 1996 and 31 December 1998, a total of eight patients with unstable sternoclavicular joints requiring surgical treatment were treated with Balser plates.
The population comprised sevenanterior and one posterior dislocations.
A 81-year-old man presented with massive hemoptysis and dyspnea.
Results of chest radiography and computer tomography were highly suspicious for a large right-sided tumor of the bronchus with impression of the right main bronchus.
Because of clinical worsening the patient was transferred to our department of pulmonology.
The patient died of unappeasable hemoptysis the next day.
At autopsy we found a 2-cm-diameter tumor of the proximal trachea as the source of massive bleeding and blood aspiration.
Histological examination confirmed the tumor to be an epithelioid angiosarcoma of the trachea, which was a primary as no other tumor manifestation was detected.
The entity of epithelioid angiosarcoma as a primary tumor of the trachea, to our knowledge, has not yet been reported.
The benefits of epidural analgesia are well known, but it is not well understood which types of urologic surgery benefit most from epidural analgesia.
In this study, the effects and side effects of prolonged epidural analgesia are prospectively examined and analysed on 172 adult patients in three different operation groups.
An epidural infusion of local anaesthetic combined with an opioid and adrenaline was given for a period of 5-7 days.
There was no difference between the groups with respect to the effectiveness of the analgesia and patients' perception of the treatment.
Mobilization differed, as expected, between the groups, however even after the most major surgery (e. g. cystectomy with bladder substitution), mobilization was impressively unproblematic.
Retarded return of regular intestinal function after the transperitoneal operation and partly after lumbotomy compared with the extraperitoneal operation depended on which operation was performed and the amount of analgesia given.
The side effects such as sedation, nausea and pruritis were conditional partly on the opiate and partly on the intervention.
Up to 11 % showed slight muscular weakness of the lower limbs as a specific side effect of the local anaesthetic.
Complications: One patient died of cerebral hypoxy due to an initially undetected subdural catheter placement complicated by severe pre-existent carotid stenosis.
In four patients, the epidural analgesia had to be stopped because of catheter migration.
There was no clinical evidence of hematoma, abscess or permanent neurological damage.
Epidural analgesia works well in terms of analgesia, mobilization and patient satisfaction, bearing in mind the potential side effects and complications.
It can be recommended for lumbotomy and long transperitoneal operations however not for extraperitoneal interventions in the lower abdomen such as radical prostatectomy.
High-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) provides excellent contrast between osseous structures, air and soft tissue in conjunction with high spatial resolution.
Therefore, thin-section HRCT with bone window setting is the method of choice for the examination of the middle ear structures.
The indications are acute and chronic inflammatory changes, cholesteatoma and tumor, the "postoperative middle ear", and malformations.
In most cases, HRCT enables differentiation between inflammatory changes, cholesteatoma, and tumor.
The excellent depiction of subtle osseous details enables the identification of erosions of the ossicles or of the bony walls of the mastoid cells, of osseous defects of the tegmen, of the bony labyrinth, and of the tympanic course of the facial canal.
In addition, HRCT enables excellent depiction of reconstructions of the ossicles or prosthesis of the ossicles.
Although HRCT is the first method of choice, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) may provide additional information and lead to a more accurate diagnosis in some cases.
This is explained by the excellent soft tissue contrast provided by MRI.
In addition, MRI offers the possibility of using various pulse sequences and the administration of IV contrast material.
Therefore, MRI may allow the differentiation between inflammatory changes, cholesteatoma, and tumor in those cases in which accurate diagnosis cannot be made by HRCT.
The differentiation between a meningocele or meningoencephalocele and other entities such as tumors or cholesteatoma can be established by MRI.
Furthermore, MRI can accurately depict cases of labyrinthitis or of neuritis of the facial nerve or of intracranial disease caused by middle ear processes, while this is not always possible by HRCT.
Morbidity and mortality after emergency procedures in 105 patients with perforated colonic diverticulitis were evaluated in a retrospective study.
In different stages of diverticulitis (Hinchey classification: I, 8.6 %; II, 14.3 %; III, 57.1 %; IV, 20.0 %) mortality was 12.4 %.
Preoperative sepsis syndrome with leucopenia and disturbed liver function, cardiac risk factors and obesity were independent prognostic factors in multiple logistic regression.
Accompanied by immunosuppression the mortality rate remarkably increased to 33 %.
The stage of peritonitis showed no influence on the prognosis.
In multivariate analysis, surgical procedure (primary resection 12.4 %, Hartmann's procedure 61.9 %, non-resection procedures 25.7 %) showed influence only on increased general complications.
The role of laparoscopic cholecystectomy on patients with histologically confirmed acute cholecystitis is still controversial.
From January 1992 to December 1996, 228 cholecystectomies were performed for acute cholecystitis and a total of 104 patients were operated on conventionally and 124 patients underwent laparoscopic surgery.
In a prospective study we compared the conventional with the laparoscopic technique.
The results indicated that in 19 patients (15.3 %) treated initially with the laparoscopic technique, a switch to laparotomy was required.
The operating duration was lower for conventional cholecystectomy (75 min versus 95 min).
However, surgical and nonsurgical complication rates were similar in both groups.
The period of hospitalization was shorter in laparoscopic operations.
According to these results we believe that laparoscopic cholecystectomy in patients with acute cholecystitis is a safe and effective procedure.
The patients will benefit from the advantages of laparoscopic surgery without increased morbidity.
The sentinel lymph node dissection (SLND) is one of the most striking developments in the treatment of melanoma.
Since the first report by Morton et al.
in 1992, the method has been refined, and its use has increased.
Introduced as an alternative to elective lymph node dissection (ELND), it has rapidly made its way into clinical practice.
SLND allows precise pathologic staging through removal and analysis of a limited number of nodes (false-negative rate < 2 %).
It distinguishes patients with clinically occult nodal disease from those with tumor-free regional basin who would not benefit from radical dissection.
However, the SLND is still an experimental procedure with yet unproven utility.
Although children are injured everyday through accidents, road traffic, leisure or sports activities, internal lesions of the knee joint due to the trauma are rare.
Diagnose and therapy follow rather empirical than analytical patterns.
A retrospective, controlled study evaluates and recommends ways of treatment.
Traumatic internal lesions of the knee where analysed in 76 children up to age 16.
The pattern of injury changed with increasing age, the trauma remaining the same.
Most common where injuries to the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL).
Main cause where sports activities.
Operative treatment seems to be the appropriate treatment.
Osseous avulsions of the cruciates and collateral ligaments showed good results after transosseous refixation with a suture.
Suturing of intraligamentous ACL-ruptures as well as patellar ligaments plasty showed unsatisfactory results.
Secondary lesions due to instability of the knee where also observed in children.
Children cannot self estimate the severity of the injury so subjective statements are insecure.
Trauma, surgery, pain and immobilisation cause a marked malfunction of the senso-motor system which is effectively treated by physiotherapy.
Malignant mixed Müllerian tumours (MMMT) are tumours of the female genital tract which rarely occur in extragenital sites.
We report a case of a 46-year-old female with MMMT with primary occurrence in the greater omentum.
Only 19 cases of primary extragenital manifestation of this tumour are described in the literature.
The clinical appearance, diagnosis, therapy, histological evaluation and histogenesis are discussed.
The publication of the CONSORT Statement was aimed at the improvement of the quality of research reports of randomized controlled clinical trials.
It contains the most important standards of high quality research.
Although originally meant for randomized studies only most aspects of this statement can be applied to other kinds of clinical studies.
The demand for minimally invasive techniques and more comfort for the patient is becoming higher and higher.
In the region of the ankle joint, it is therefore ideal to use the arthroscope for pathology.
Indications for ankle joint arthroscopy are: soft tissue impingement, ligament instability, impingement in the syndesmosis, osteochondral lesions, loose bodies, arthrosis, and loose os trigonum of the talus.
In the subtalar joint the indications are rupture of the ligaments, loose bodies, and synovitis with soft tissue impingement.
A new indication is arthroscopically assisted arthrodesis of the talar and subtalar joint.
The reported high incidence of complications, especially in terms of neurovascular lesions, can be avoided by an exact knowledge of anatomy and use of non-invasive distraction of the joint.
Although alexithymia is found in patients with various somatic disorders, it remains unclear whether it is really related to organic disease - as proposed by the founders of the concept .[125].
As the interplay between the experience of emotion and possible adverse effects on health is a fundamental tenet of psychosomatic medicine, alexithymia remains an interesting concept to be further explored, especially concerning (1) possible pathways linking emotion to physical illness and (2) the neurobiologic basis of emotional information processing.
Compared to the intense international discussion on the subject, in Germany there are still many doubts concerning alexithymia: while some clinicians question the validity of the whole concept, psychiatric and psychosomatic researchers seem unsure about alexithymia's role in their search for a physiological basis to the link between emotion and physical disease.
Our review deals with the empirical literature concerning that possible association and tries to tie in their data with modern, neurobiologically founded insights into emotional information processing within the brain.
In the etiopathology of tension type headache, vascular and autonomic disorders are discussed.
Fifteen patients with chronic tension type headache according to the criteria of the IHS were investigated using the TCD-ergometer-test - a method used to evaluate the myogenic mechanism of cerebrovascular autoregulation - and the results were compared with the findings in fifteen healthy control subjects.
An immunohistochemical and morphometric study was performed on bone marrow biopsies in 604 patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) to compare morphological and clinical features and to evaluate effects of interferon (IFN) and chemotherapy.
Following morphometry significant correlations were calculated between number of CD61+ megakaryocytes, including their precursors with fiber density.
This finding is in line with the close functional relationship between megakaryopoiesis and fibroblasts regarding the complex pathomechanism of myelofibrosis.
The latter was observed in about 28% of patients already at diagnosis.
In a similar way, the frequency of CD68+ macrophages was correlated with the amount of Ret40f+ nucleated erythroid precursors, implicating an involvement of this cell lineage in iron turnover, hemoglobin synthesis, and degradation of the expelled nuclei from normoblasts.
The (-D-galactosyl residue-expressing) Pseudo-Gaucher cells were detectable in 30% of pretreatment specimens.
Moreover, significant associations were calculable between reduction in erythropoiesis or increase in fibers with clinical features such as hemoglobin level, percentages of myelo- and erythroblasts in the peripheral blood, and spleen size.
These variables are in keeping with more advanced stages of CML.
Based on our morphometric evaluations, a classification into three different histological subgroups: granulocytic, megakaryocytic, and myelofibrotic was carried out.
This simplified staging system was correlated with corresponding sets of hematological data.
Sequential biopsies in 173 patients with monotherapy by IFN, hydroxyurea (HU), or busulfan (BU) revealed a fibrogenic effect of IFN in contrast to a fiber-reducing property of HU.
The dynamics of myelofibrosis and changes of major cell lineages during treatment were readily demonstrable by calculating corresponding indices.
These included the ratios between quantitative differences of corresponding variables at repeated examinations and time.
Thus, in patients with complete hematological remission following IFN administration, regeneration of erythropoiesis was found to be accompanied by an increase in the total number of CD68+ macrophages, including activated subpopulations.
Histological subgroups showed a transition from a (nonfibrotic) granulocytic and megakaryocyte pattern to the myelofibrotic subtype in about 40% of patients.
This change was opposed to a numerical reduction in the myelofibrotic subtype which occurred in 17 patients (36%), but predominantly in those under HU therapy.
In conclusion, the striking heterogeneity of bone marrow features in CML warrants a careful morphological evaluation of trephine biopsies and appropriate means of processing to achieve relevant correlations with clinical data and, thus, allows a more elaborate insight into the dynamics of the disease process.
Computer-aided analysis of the results of the intrathecal infusion test using our mathematical computation leads to simplification of this investigation, and therefore normal pressure hydrocephalus is more easily diagnosed.
Simultaneous measurement of resistance and compliance during a single investigation allows the exertion of the patients to be minimized.
In contrast to classic methods it is not necessary that the ICP reaches a plateau.
Our mathematical method diverges with the description of a pressure-dependent slope of the function for the resistance from the static examination models.
For that we are able to take the non-linearity of the cerebrospinal fluid resorption into consideration.
The intrathecal infusion test is a reliable diagnostic method for measuring resistance and compliance in patients suspected of having normal pressure hydrocephalus.
Primary medullary nailing of femoral fractures is burdened by the risk of central and pulmonary complications in patients with polytrauma, especially in conjunction with craniocerebral or thoracic trauma.
This also applies to unreamed medullary nailing.
Primary treatment with external fixation necessitates secondary surgery with an altered procedure, the timing of which is not predictable.
Plate osteosynthesis with anatomical repositioning of the fragments and rigid fixation is a technically demanding procedure, but can lead to fragment necrosis due to fragment denudation.
In a prospective study conducted from 1 September 1994 to 30 June 1996 on 17 polytraumatized patients (average ISS: 30 points), simple femoral stem fractures (A-1 to B-3 of the AO-classification) were stabilized by elastic plate osteosynthesis using biological technique.
While cautiously preserving the periosteal and muscle connections to the bone, a plate is inserted as a bridge without any interfragmentary compression.
At least two to four holes are left free in the center of the plate.
This allows micro-movements in the fracture gap without the risk of material fatigue.
All of the fractures were immediately stabilized on the day of the accident.
Ornithine transcarbamylase deficiency is an x-linked disorder of the urea-cycle.
With a prevalance of 1:14000 it is one of the most frequent inborn errors of metabolism.
Heterozygous females exposed to high protein nutrition or protein catabolism, are faced with highly detrimental effects througout their lives.
Coumarin necrosis is a rare, but life-threatening complication when administering coumarin in oral anticoagulant therapy.
Predestined areas are the breasts, hips, gluteal region, thighs or lower legs.
Thrombotic tendencies, such as congenital or acquired changes in coagulation, lead to a higher risk of coumarin necrosis.
A direct, toxic effect of coumarin on the capillary system may also play a role.
Although the incidence is only 0.01-0.1%, lethality lies at 15%, the knowledge of this rare complication is important in order to begin with a proper treatment punctually.
The therapy of choice is early fibrinolysis.
With special emphasis on pediatric aspects, the presently available data on the effectiveness and safety or specific immunotherapy with house dust mite extracts are reviewed.
In addition to antiinflammatory treatment and allergen avoidance, specific immunotherapy offers an approach to the treatment of bronchial asthma in those patients sensitized against house dust mites.
Controlled studies of specific immunotherapy against house dust mites show decreased symptom-medication scores and positiv effects on some lung function parameters.
Therapeutic efficacy appears to be better in pediatric patients.
Severe side effects seem to be rare, but are more common in patients with chronic airway obstruction, in infants and with rush-immunotherapy.
From January 1996 untill February 1997 6,376 patients were treated by our group with PTCA and 3,859 (60.5%) received one or several stents.
An angiographic follow up was achieved in 63% of the patients with 1,267 experiencing restenosis (32.8%).
Of those beeing treated with re-PTCA 302 were randomly selected for further analysis.
In-stent-restenosis was treated with rotablator in 8 patients (2.7%), with eximer laser in 21 (7.0%) and with another stent in 48 patients (15.9%).
225 patients (74.4%) of this subselection were treated with balloonangioplasty only.
It is not clear whether public health insurance will cover post exposure prophylaxis (PEP), whereby the question of costs being covered by private health insurance companies is not taken into consideration here.
Regulations concerning prevention (§ 20 SGB V), precautionary medical services (§ 23 SGB V) and health examination (§ 25 SBG V) offer no legal basis for cost coverage.
PEP is patient care in the sense of § 27 SGB V. However, this particular treatment has not yet been adapted into public health insurance financial guidelines because the federal committees have not yet made appropriate recommendations.
This should be achieved soon, in order to eliminate legal ambiguities in this area.
The principles of the so called "new methods of examination and treatment" legal construct may support cost coverage liability.
On the whole, however, German-Austrian recommendations concerning indication and use of PEP must be formulated more concretely and unambiguously.
If a doctor, in the case of an indication according to the German-Austrian recommendations, does not prescribe PEP, this would probably not be malpractice, because there are still many scientific questions to be answered.
To clarify the functional mechanism of the Esmarch device in the treatment of sleep apnea, its effect on muscle activity during sleep was studied electromyographically with and without the appliance at the inferior head of the lateral pterygoid muscle, the genioglossal muscle, and the masseter muscle in 15 patients with sleep apnea syndrome.
During the obstructive apnea the muscles showed significantly lower amplitudes than before the apnea.
No significant decrease in the amplitude was observed during the central apnea, but, after the obstructive and central apnea, significantly higher amplitudes were seen than beforehand.
The amplitudes rose after the placement of the appliance, and the amplitudes of the genioglossal and lateral pterygoid muscles during obstructive apnea increased significantly after the insertion of the appliance.
The results suggest that the device can activate the masticatory and tongue muscle activity and indicate that the muscles activated with the appliance can prevent obstruction in the oropharynx.
The Esmarch device not only helps avoid obstruction by mandibular protraction, but also affects function by activating the muscles.
The analysis of the delinquency bringing disordered offenders into a hospital order institution reveals a lot of very conscious and well organized behavior during the criminal activity.
This must be taken into account in therapy and prognosis.
The prevalence in paediatric obesity is increasing in many industrialised and developing countries and growing to a world-wide medical and socio-economic problem.
In a recent report of the WHO the world-wide epidemic of obesity was addressed as a problem of highest priority.
Inadequate long-term results of weight reduction in children and adolescents and the increasing socio-economic burden to the health systems, as well as the high grade of persistence of obesity aggravate the problem and demand primary prevention efforts.Future directions of primary prevention measures could be the time of onset of obesity, the "early adiposity rebound", intrauterine malnutrition, weight gain during infancy, low energy expenditure in infants, familial adiposity, composition of food and modification of fat intake.
Despite advances in the field of orthopedic surgery, necrosis of the femoral head still remains a serious problem.
Under normal conditions magnetic resonance tomography (MRT) is the gold standard for early diagnosis.
Because of magnetic interference, this technique is not applicable in the diagnosis of posttraumatic necrosis with internal fixation, however.
This seems to be an ideal indication for ossovenography: contrast medium is injected into the femoral head under X-ray control and the venous flow is documented.
Furthermore, it is possible to get histological samples from suspicious areas.
Ossovenography was performed in 12 patients and the results were compared with histological samples.
In every patient in whom necrosis of the femoral head was diagnosed by ossovenography (91.6 %), we also found necrosis on histological examination.
In one patient in whom physiological flow was found, there was a corresponding absence of necrosis in the histological sample.
There were no complications during ossovenography.
The results suggest that ossovenography is a promising and reliable method for early diagnosis of necrosis of the femoral head in the presence of internal fixation devices.
To evaluate patients with an increased risk of sudden cardiac death the analysis of ventricular late potentials, heart rate variability and baroreflexsensitivity is helpful.
However, the prediction of malignant arrhythmic events cannot be performed with sufficient accuracy.
For a better identification of high risk patients other methods are necessary.
In this study the impact of the chemoreflexsensitivity for the prediction of ventricular tachyarrhythmias was investigated.
The results of a retrospective study concerning percutaneous catheter drainage of 62 intra-abdominal abscesses in 60 patients were demonstrated, including the procedure and complications.
For the first access a thin needle was used to perform an aspiration biopsy under sonographic control.
We placed a pigtail or van Sonnenberg catheter by Seldinger or trocar technique into the abscesses.
The primary success rate of percutaneous drainage was 85 %.
Complications occurred in 6.4 % of the cases with a mortality of 0 %.
This method is an acceptable alternative to surgery for many patients.
Ultrasound-guided percutaneous catheter drainage is the method of choice for uncomplicated abscesses, especially in the critically ill patient.
Acute brain tissue damage or systemic illnesses can lead to local or diffuse brain edema and raised intracranial pressure (ICP).
It is obvious that in all brain injuries additional factors (metabolic disturbances, hypoxia and hypercapnia, circulatory instability) aggravating brain edema and impairing recovery of viable neurons have to be treated immediately and consequently.
Medical therapies for further treatment of elevated ICP depend not only on their mode of action and side effects but although on the specific illness.
The different etiology and pathogenesis of developing brain edema and ICP elevation with either more local or generalized extension explain the different success of medical treatment strategies in severe head trauma compared to middle cerebral artery territory or complete hemispheric infarction.
An algorithm for treatment of postischemic brain edema in acute hemispheric infarction was developed.
In an investigation of infection control methods for respirator systems in 89 randomly selected German intensive care units as a part of the NIDEP study (Nosocomial Infections in Germany - Surveillance and Prevention), it was found that respirator systems were exchanged daily in about 50% of the intensive care units.
However, Craven et al.
found that changing circuits (including tubing and exhalation valve and the attached humidifier) every 24 h rather than every 48 h was independently associated with the occurrence of nosocomial pneumonia.
On the basis of these results and recent studies, the current situation in the literature was analyzed in order to make recommendations for exchanging ventilator circuits.
The key function of the uterine cervix to maintain pregnancy is biochemically characterized by an increased synthesis of proteins (e.g., collagen), proteoglycans, and glycoproteins (e.g., fibronectin) as well as by well-defined interactions between these components of the extracellular matrix.
In contrast to the slow phase of the cervical ripening process in late pregnancy, dilatation of the cervix during parturition requires the rapid formation and action of catabolic enzyme systems, leading mainly to collagen degradation and changes in its architecture but also to degradation of other fundamental matrix proteins.
It has been suggested that an increased production of tumor necrosis factor- and interleukin-1, for example, induces an increased expression of endothelial adhesion molecules with subsequent extravasation of granulocytes in the cervical stroma and that the chemotaxis and degranulation of these cells within the stroma is triggered by an increase in interleukin-8 concentration.
The proteases (e.g., matrix metalloproteinase-8) released after degranulation of neutrophilic granulocytes encounter an already destabilized (loss of decorin) collagenous fiber network.
The clinical consequences of this basic research is to develop new concepts in a more causal treatment of cervical pathology during pregnancy and parturition.
Objectives: The involvement of cytokines in degeneration and inflammation of human tissue is well established.
Interleukin-1 (IL-1) is a major agent in the pathophysiology of periarticular bone resorption in rheumatoid arthritis and in osteoporosis.
Because the use of recombinant cytokines and growth factors is limited due to their short half lives, techniques are needed to get a permanent release of these therapeutic proteins.
The rational of this study was to show that retroviral transduction of human osteoblastic cells is possible in vitro using the marker gene LacZ and the potentially therapeutic gene encoding for human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist protein (IL-1Ra).
Different transduction techniques were combined to improve the rate of transduction in vitro.
Methods: Osteoblastic cells were isolated from human spongious bone and cultured in vitro.
The -galactosidase (LacZ) gene and the cDNA of IL-1Ra were introduced into the isolated cells by retrovirus mediated gene transfer.
LacZ activity was determined by Xgal staining, IL-1Ra was measured quantitatively by ELISA.
Results: The transfer of retroviral IL-1Ra led to IL-1Ra expression of 8614 to 10089pg IRAP/50000 cells/48h.
By combining different techniques to improve transduction, the X-gal staining established a rate of transduction of 60%.
Conclusion: Our results demonstrate that retroviral transduction of human osteobalstic cells is possible in vitro, and leads to high levels of the synthesized transgene product.
The rate of retroviral transduction can be accelerated in vitro.
To provide a brief review of the current state of topical treatment with capsaicin or acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) for therapy of chronic pain syndromes.
We report a 72-year-old patient who developed an isolated bilateral hypoglossal nerve paralysis following head trauma with complete recovery after three months.
Since the CT scan did not show any fractures of the posterior skull base, we discuss a traction nerve injury as a possible mechanism.
Injuries of the colon and retroperitoneum are rarely observed after blunt abdominal trauma and occur in about 5 - 20 % of the patients.
The majority of complications are due to initial misdiagnoses and a delay in treatment.
Lesions of the pancreas and duodenum are the most frequent diagnoses in the retroperitoneal space, while major vascular traumata or urogenital injuries are rare.
Retroperitoneal hematoma are most likely due to pelvic fractures.
The survival of patients after colon or retroperitoneal injuries depends on the severity of concomitant organ trauma, the time of diagnosis, and a situation-adapted therapeutic strategy.
The treatment of the typical caudal retroperitoneal hematoma following pelvic fractures is conservative in most patients.
Early pelvic stabilization, e. g., with external fixation, is recommended in these patients.
Central retroperitoneal hematoma in the supra - or inframesocolic space should be treated surgically, as major vascular injuries are most likely in these patients.
Duodenal or pancreatic injuries need surgical exploration in the majority of patients; the therapeutic spectrum ranges from simple sutures to pancreatoduodenal resection.
The treatment of colon injuries depends on the degree of peritonitis and the severity of concomitant trauma.
Early diagnosed injuries are suitable for primary repair, while deviation stomata or a Hartmann procedure with or without resection should be offered to patients with delayed diagnoses, peritonitis, or severe concomitant diseases.
Long-lasting procedures should be abandoned in the emergency situation; in these severe cases, laparotomy should be aimed towards primary "damage control" and followed by definite surgery after stabilization of the patient.
Surgery of the great veins inevitably began with the surgical treatment of injuries, often involving the femoral vein.
Because of the famous case presented by Roux in 1813, the prevailing opinion until almost the end of the nineteenth century was that ligation of the vein made death inevitable, but that the only way to control severe hemorrhaging from a vein was to ligate the femoral artery.
Zaufal's principle (1880) consisted in the ligation and resection of great veins of the body and limbs in order to prevent sepsis in suppurative processes.
This surgical method was still being used in the first half of the twentieth century in patients with perforated appendicitis or puerperal fever.
In the limb, the congestion induced in the vein had a positve effect on the healing process.
The surgical treatment of leg and pelvic deep vein thrombosis was initially (1931) aimed at achieving decompression in compartment syndromas.
The first thrombectomy was performed in 1937, but several operations with a successful outcome were reported at the 61st annual meeting of the German Society of Surgery in the following year.
Bilateral glomus jugulare tumors are rare.
However, their treatment should preserve not only the function of the facial nerve but also the caudal cranial nerves and the middle ears in order to avoid bilateral hearing losses.
Further, venous cerebral drainage has to be ensured in order to avoid cerebral hypertension and hemorrhagic infarction after bilateral jugular ligations.
In the case presented bilateral glomus jugulare tumors required super-selective angiography and embolization.
Complete tumor removal on both sides was then possible by a transmastoid-transcervical approach without any further functional deteriorations.
Middle ear function was preserved on both sides by temporary ventral translocation of the posterior wall of the auditory meatus.
As the sigmoid sinus and internal jugular vein had been ligated during initial previous surgery, venous drainage was tested one year later by angiography and compression of the remaining internal jugular vein.
A sufficient collateral circulation was found and permitted surgery on the second side.
Intoxication is the monotone reaction of the CNS to consumed psychoactive substances.
Intoxication-like conditions may also occur without taking drugs.
We then use the term "ecstasy".
Intoxication can follow typical or atypical course.
The main symptoms are disturbances of consciousness and orientation and additionally changes of mood, affect, drive and initiative, train of thought and self-control.
The diagnosis of intoxication differs from the diagnosis of psychosis because the latter continues its own course, occurs in the absence of psychoactive substances in the organism and always lasts longer than an intoxication.
In a meta-analysis of 69 prospective and retrospective studies, we investigated the value of various surgical techniques in the treatment of lumbar disk herniations.
Androgenetic hair loss is the most frequent reason for the topical application of hair-growth-promoting agents.
Such preparations should arrest or even reverse androgen-induced hair follicle regression as well as prolonging the hair cycles, especially of the shortened anagen phase, and thus protect from increased hair loss.
True evidence of drug effects on hair growth is problematic, since trichograms, the method chiefly applied by the manufacturers, fail to reveal every factor involved in the follicular activity, especially the duration of anagen stage.
For example, an increase in the anagen rate does not always reflect a lengthening of the anagen stage, but may also be due to shortened hair cycles.
Accordingly, drug effects on hair growth should be investigated by methods that analyse the cell cycle kinetics.
For this approach DNA-flowcytometry of the outer root sheath in plucked anagen hairs and of complete anagen hair bulbs taken by micropreparative techniques from scalp biopsies offers a reproducible method for quick and reliable evaluation of hair growth.
The calcaneus pseudathrosis is rarly seen in clinical workday and we coundnit find any case be reported.
In two casese the authors present the diagnosis and therapie of a non-union after a calcaneus fracture.
The authors point especially at anatomical characteristics and biomechanical reasons and their meaning for aetiology of pseudathrosis after a calcaneus fracture.
A general review of the results and technique of intraarterial chemotherapy in cases of breast cancer is given.
The remission rate for untreated primary tumors is nearly 100%, for completely treated local relapses approximately 70%.
The complication rate is quite low using an intraarterial well-tolerated cytostatic agent such as mitoxantrone.
However, thromboembolism of the vertebral artery facing the internal mammary artery may occur.
The indication for intraarterial chemotherapy should always be set by an interdisciplinary board.
In the country city of Ansbach, Germany all cases of varicella-zoster virus infection seen by dermatologists, pediatricians and general practitioneers were registered over a period of 16 months, from February 1992 until May 1993.
152 patients were clinically diagnosed with herpes zoster and 437 patients with chickenpox.
The population-based incidence of zoster infections was 22.6 per 10,000 inhabitants per year, while the incidence of chickenpox was 42.4.
There was a slight predominance of male patients with zoster.
There was also a marked influence of age and sex, on the localization of the involved nerve segments.
Zoster was seen in patients of all ages but there was a clear predominance in older patients.
The peak of the disease occurred in the eighth decade.
In patients with chickenpox, the sex ratio was equal.
The disease typically occurs in children and we observed a predominance of the cases in the first decade.
Paraneoplastic neurologic syndromes (PNS) are rare disorders of the nervous system that cannot be ascribed to metatastases or to destruction of vital systemic organs by the tumor or its treatment.
Most frequently, PNS occur in association with small-cell lung, breast or ovarian carcinomas.
The most frequent PNS is Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, which at the same time has the highest predictive value concerning an underlying carcinoma.
PNS have been classified mostly under anatomical aspects but now are increasingly categorized according to specific antibodies.
In certain neurologic syndromes (sensible and autonomic neuropathy, cerebellitis, limbic encephalitis, Opsoclonus-Myoclonus syndrome, Stiff-man syndrome, neuromyotonia, subacute amaurosis) specific autoantibodies are highly predictive for a neoplasm.
Pathogenic relevance of these autoantibodies has been demonstrated only for antibodies against (1) voltage gated calcium channels (VGCC) in Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, (2) voltage gated potassium channels (VGKC) in neuromyotonia, and (3) recoverin in cancer associated retinopathy.
The present article deals with the neurological symptoms of PNS, associated tumors, and the relevance of specific antibodies for the diagnosis and pathogenesis of PNS.
Ewing's sarcoma is a very rare tumor which has, however, attracted much oncological interest since the dramatic improvement of its prognosis under chemotherapy.
Its histogenesis has been discussed controversially for a long time, including a possible origin in immature reticulum, myogenous, endothelial and undifferentiated mesenchymal cells.
Repeated reports have also suggested a possible neuroectodermal genesis.
Convincing arguments, however, have only been brought forward during recent years, since it was found that Ewing's sarcoma and malignant peripheral neuroectodermal tumor share a common chromosome translocation 11;22.
In the meantime this hypothesis has been strengthened by numerous cell biological analyses.
There seems to be no clear border between Ewing's sarcoma and malignant peripheral neuroectodermal tumors with definite neural differentiation.
Histological differential diagnosis of Ewing's sarcoma has been improved by immunohistological methods.
In most cases, they can be distinguished from lymphoma (leucocyte common antigen, B and T markers) and embryonal rhabdomyosarcoma (muscle specific actin, desmin) without problems.
Apart from that, it is possible nowadays to obtain antibodies against the MIC 2-protein, which is preferably expressed in Ewing sarcoma.
The diagnostics of Ewing's sarcoma and the malignant peripheral neuroectodermal tumor have considerably been enriched by the fact that the specific chromosome translocation t(11;22) can be proved molecular biologically.
In contrast to the cytogenetic evidence, it is not necessary to establish cell cultures.
Contrast enhanced (CE) magnetic resonance angiography affords angiographic depiction of extended vascular territories with high quality and diagnostic value.
A prerequisite is the fast acquisition of a three-dimensional gradient-echo data set during the injection of a bolus of a T1-shortening contrast agent.
We describe the dependence of the quality of CE-MRA on technical parameters of different MR-scanners and consider some fundamental facts and practical guidelines concerning the contrast agent injection.
The present study gives a survey of radiological findings after surgical treatment of laryngeal and pharyngeal carcinomas, whereby the surgical procedures and the localisation of tumours found special consideration.
Owing to advances in adjuvant therapy, the outlook for patients with primary malignant bone tumors has improved dramatically in recent decades.
This applies both to improved survival and to increased limb salvage rates.
The diagnostic strategies and a staging system for malignant bone tumors are outlined.
Technical aspects of the standard limb salvage procedures, such as Tikhoff-Linberg resection at the shoulder, internal hemipelvectomy, proximal and distal femur resection and rotation plasty are presented.
The use of soft tissue procedures such as flaps and the use of modular implant systems has reduced the complication rates of limb salvage procedures.
In the future we hope to further improve prognosis and quality of life for such patients by the application of risk-adapted strategies for chemotherapy and surgery.
In 10-30 % of cases, locoregional recurrence is accompanied by distant metastasis; a further 25 % develop distant metastasis within the year after diagnosis of recurrence.
In treatment of recurrent tumor in the thoracic wall, axillary or supraclavicular disease surgery plays a major role.
Since - another long-lasting courses occur even in the metastatic situation, recurrence is not an infrequent event, and therapy then needs a multidisciplinary approach.
Surgical techniques such as local, myocutaneous or omental flaps and mesh graft transplantation are used to cover large defects after tumor resection.
Additional and innovative modalities are combined in the management of this complex problem: locoregional or systemic chemotherapy, topical application of chemotherapy, certain radiation regimens and in otherwise resistant tumors the experimental use of photodynamic laser therapy (PDT).
The most important goal hereby is to restore or at least maintain organ function and quality of life.
In acute osteomyelitis of childhood a rapid diagnosis and initiation of antibiotic therapy is necessary in order to prevent late sequelae.
Thus, diagnostic imaging plays a crucial role.
If acute osteomyelitis is suspected in a child, imaging starts with conventional radiography in order to exclude other differential diagnoses.
This is followed by sonography for the purpose of diagnosing a subperiosteal abscess or joint fluid from which the causative organism could be isolated.
If the diagnosis is unclear, the next step should be either MRI or 99m Tc-MDP bone scan, depending on the possibility of clinical localization and the site of the suspected lesion.
MRI is superior to bone scan in depicting the exact anatomy, which is extremely important in spinal osteomyelitis and preoperatively.
The bone scan can show the whole skeleton in one examination and should be favored if there is no definite localization or in suspected multifocal osteomyelitis.
Rarely scintigraphy with labeled white blood cells is indicated.
The 67 Ga scan, however, should not be used in children because of the high level of radiation exposure.
The different imaging modalities are described in detail and an imaging diagnostic workup is outlined.
In spite of all interdisciplinary efforts and functionally oriented operation procedures, there are still unsatisfying results in the treatment of cleft lip and palate (CLP) patients.
Secondary corrections involve upper lip, nose, and palate (fissures).
In some cases, it is necessary to reposition the complete maxilla.
Finally, there are indications for speech improving measures and total septorhinoplasties.
Dental treatment can be brought to a positive end by means of implant-borne prosthodontic work.
In this paper, some of the anatomical and physiologic conditions and surgical procedures are described, which may serve as a basis for a functionally orientated treatment of sequelae after primary CLP care.
Damage to the respiratory system caused by inhalation of toxic products of combustion and the subsequent development of adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) are the main lethal factors in burns patients.
Treatment with exogenous surfactant is one of the therapeutic options.
However, no clinical reports have yet been published about this therapy.
We report on two patients with burn injuries of second to third degree affecting 42% and 48% respectively of the total body surface plus inhalation injury complicated by ARDS.
Both patients were treated with bovine surfactant (Alveofact).
The therapeutic effects on oxygenation and pulmonary function were monitored.
Intrabronchial application of surfactant by bronchoscopy during exhaustive conventional mechanical ventilation resulted in improved gas exchange with an increase in arterial O2 pressure (paO2); inspired O2 concentration (FiO2) was lowered and there was an improvement in lung compliance.
Both patients survived this critical situation.
We conclude that treatment with exogenous surfactant in postburn victims with ARDS is a promising therapeutic approach to improve the survival rate of these high-risk patients.
The main aesthetic concern of patients with Angle class II deformities with skeletal deep bite - short face syndrome - is the short lower face.
It is the orthodontist's task to correct this deformity insofar as possible.
Depending on the extent, even orthodontists at the beginning of their training will recognize this.
Since presurgical orthodontic treatment determines the kind and extent of the surgical procedure, the orthodontist has to plan the treatment in for individual case .
It is the purpose of this article to demonstrate a concept of treatment for patients with class II deformities, skeletal deep bite, and a short lower face.
Presurgical orthodontic treatment and the surgical procedure to correct the deformity are discussed.
The treatment results show that it is necessary to leave or to create a certain curve of Spee, depending on the extent of the deformity, to achieve a satisfactory result in terms of to function, aesthetics, and stability.
It can be concluded that it is only possible to reach the preset treatment goals with an exact diagnosis and the knowledge of the necessary preparation in combination with the surgical procedure.
Adequate psychotherapeutic treatment of transsexual patients during the "real- life-test" is crucial for the outcome after sex reassignement surgery.
Necessary modifications are discussed along the concept of "transsexual defense" and the interrelation of identity and disordered gender identity.
Usually therapeuts of transsexual patients, who decide over somatic sex reassignement, have to engage also in psychotherapy in a broad sense.
Within the setting of the "administrative-psychotherapeutic split" the psychotherapist leaves the decision over admission to sex reassignement to a therapist specialised in gender identity disorders.
In this setting patients have more time to develop insight and have better chances to explore other options and find individual solutions with regard to irreversible sex reassignement surgery.
During recent years in the German federal social welfare system has been subject to several changes due to structural forms.
The hospital sector - as an element of this system - has also been affected.
Based on various legislation the financial framework has been reduced which has led to tendencies of economic limitation and rationalization.
From this background considerable risk selection and changes in emphasis might result.
Cost intensive patients with a high need for treatment are referred as quickly as possible and dicharged to outpatient services despite unknown domestic follow-up care.
Mostly the elderly are affected.
Medical rehabilitation can be found in this system at the cut between SGB V and SGB XI.
However, this division raises problems and discussions concerning benefit payment (rehabilitation before nursing, priority of home, etc.).
Right in rehabilitation the most important thing is an overlap of sectors.
Various medical, nursing and other social supplies have to be put into a network to achieve an integral treatment of patients that focuses on the individual situation.
In 1995 the Ethics Commission of the Medical University of Lübeck was asked to rule on whether a preimplantation diagnostic procedure (PID) could be performed on a husband and wife who were both carriers of the cystic fibrosis mutation  F508.
The couple had previously given birth to a child with cystic fibrosis and had twice terminated a pregnancy following prenatal screening.
Ethically, the performance of a PID was certainly warranted for this couple.
The risk of violating §§8 Section 1 and/or 2 Section 1 ("totipotent cells shall not be removed for diagnostic purposes") of the Law for the Protection of Embryos (ESchG) was judged to be nonexistent in written statements from two expert witnesses (Prof. K.V.
Hinrichsen and Prof. H.M. Beier, both embryologists).
In the view of the Ethics Commission, only §1 Section 2 ("an ovum shall be fertilized only for the purpose of inducing pregnancy") of the ESchG currently prohibits PIDs.
In light of the social and biological arguments in favor of PIDs, however, the Ethics Commission questioned whether this section of the ESchG is still morally justifiable.
A 38 year old male patient with a coarctation of the aorta was successfully operated using an ascending aorta-abdominal aorta bypass (AAAAB).
The diagnosis of a severe postisthmic stenosis had been confirmed by aortography.
Preoperatively the patient suffered from extreme hypertension and claudicatio intermittens.
After prosthetic repair of coarctation, blood pressure became normotensive and claudicatio intermittens disappeared.
In this report, we discuss various surgical techniques and the most important question concerning the optimal timing of surgical repair of aortic coarctation.
Iatrogenic colonic perforation is a rare but very dangerous complication of colonoscopy.
We report on eleven prospectivly recorded patients treated between 1994 and 1998.
In seven cases the colonoscopy had been done for diagnostic and in four cases for therapeutic reason.
Nine women and two men (age range 56 to 92 years) were affected.
In 77 % the perforation was found in the sigmoid colon.
All patients were operated on and five sutures, five resections and one colostomy were performed.
No significant differences could be shown in six patients with classical perforation compared with five patients presenting with prolonged abdominal pain.
Only duration of symptoms was significantly different in the two groups.
Three patients (85, 90 and 92 years) died from late complications.
Indications of MR arthrography were analyzed in this prospective study.
The aim was to evaluate possible advantages over conventional MRI, establish diagnostic criteria and to analyze its meaning further for the therapeutic management of postoperative patients.
Nerve fibre-neuroendocrine cell complexes (NF-NEC-C's) are neuroendocrine cells located in the lamina propria of the gastrointestinal tract directly connected with nerve fibres of Meissner's plexus.
We report on a patient with sporadic Zollinger-Ellison syndrome (ZES) with electron microscopically demonstrated multiple NF-NEC-C's in non-antral gastric mucosa.
It is suspected that in ZES the hypergastrinaemia may represent a trophic stimulus for the proliferation of NF-NEC-C's in the gastric mucosa.
Introduction: The prehospitaly initiated endotracheal intubation and controlled ventilation, is especially in multi-system-trauma cases, recognized to be the "gold standard".
Thus especially in view of the increasing demands being placed upon the quality of prehospital emergency treatment in general, the quality of such prehospital induced ventilation, is becoming of increasing importance.
Thereby we must take into consideration the limited possabilities, which are afflicted with a high degree of uncertainess, which we have at our disposal to effectively evaluate the efficiency of emergency ventilation.
The purpose of our study within a collective of severely traumatized patients, was to determine the quality of prehospitaly induced ventilation with regards to the adequacy of oxygenation and ventilation and as a result of our findings, to identify areas for procedural optimization.
Staging of any tumor, i.e.
determination of the extent of the disease, serves to select the patients who might profit from curative surgical intervention or to define those patients with inoperable carcinomas who should be referred for other therapies, such as chemotherapy or irradiation.
Furthermore, accurate staging is necessary for assessment of prognosis, for radiation therapy planning, and for differentiation of those with small-cell lung cancer or for follow-up examinations of small-cell lung cancer patients after during and after chemotherapy.
The primary radiological staging and diagnostic modalities for assessment of bronchial carcinomas are computed tomography (CT) of the thorax including liver and adrenal glands, abdominal sonography, and bone scintigraphy.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) should be reserved for specific indications, e.g.
infiltration of the chest wall or staging of patients with intolerance/allergy to intravenous contrast medium.
The clinical value of nuclear medicine techniques, such as [18F]2-fluoride-2-desoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) for evaluation of lymph nodes and distant metastases, In-111 octreotide/somatostatin receptor scans for staging of small-cell lung cancer, and thallium-201 SPECT are currently being assessed in numerous studies, although these techniques are already in routine use.
In future these or nuclear medicine techniques, as well as techniques using molecular-based contrast material, especially for MR imaging, currently in experimental status, may yield serious potential for staging purposes.
Background: We investigated fundus autofluorescence in vivo using a novel scanning laser ophthalmoscope.
Myocardial infarctions may be precipitated by external triggers.
External triggers include physical activity and emotional stress as well as other infrequent triggers such as war threats or earthquakes.
Changes in the environment also play an important role in the incidence of myocardial infarctions; circadian, seasonal, and weekly variations have been observed.
Patients' behavior at the onset of symptoms depends on various factors and influences outcome and mortality.
Appropriate preventive measures are indicated in order to protect patients during vulnerable periods.
Health education should be directed towards patients' behavior and promptly seeking medical assistance at the onset of symptoms.
Introduction: In patients with neuroendocrine gastrointestinal tumors and liver metastases, but without known extrahepatic manifestations, liver transplantation may be indicated as curativ or "long-term-palliativ" therapy.
For these patients the absence of bone lesions is mandatory.
A patient suffering from long-standing pustular psoriasis of the palms was treated for 3 weeks with a mercury-containing drug.
Exacerbation into generalized pustular psoriasis developed.
Mercury levels in blood and urine were increased.
After withdrawal of the mercury preparation, therapy with DMPA (2,3-Dimercapto-1-propane-sulfonic acid), a mercury antidote, was initiated, together with short-term treatment with aromatic retinoids and PUVA.
Within a few days mercury levels decreased significantly and the skin lesions practically disappeared.
Based on the results of chromosome analysis from cell cultures and testis biopsies, the incidence of chromosomal abnormalities in infertile men is up to 20%.
Chromosomal analysis from peripheral blood cultures is a routine procedure while the analysis of meiotic chromosomes is labor intensive and mainly used in a scientific setting.
Of all infertile males, 7-9% show numerical and/or structural chromosomal abnormalities in their peripheral blood lymphocytes.
There is an inverse correlation between sperm count and the incidence of chromosomal abnormalities, with 21% of patients with non-obstructive azoospermia having a chromosomal abnormality, most often Klinefelter's syndrome.
The rate of patients with chromosomal abnormalities is only 9% in patients with severe oligozoospermia (less than 5 million/ml), and structural abnormalities are found more often in this group.
Using fluorescence in situ analysis the number of selected chromosomes can be assayed in single sperm cells.
There is no consensus on whether infertile men have a higher proportion of aneuploid (disomic) sperm cells than fertile men.
Taking into account the results from meiotic studies in infertile men, an increased rate of aneuploid sperm cells is likely.
Chromosomal analysis should be performed on all infertile men being treated with ICSI as the result of this analysis could have important consequences in their reproductive decisions.
Background: Tufted angioma represents a benign vascular lesion of the skin.
The knowledge of this distinctive entity is important in distinction of clinically more aggressive and malignant neoplasms respectively.
Limb lengthening in dwarfism has become a standardised procedure with a good prognosis.
In most cases external fixation is used.
Gain of leg length up to 15 cm and more is possible in the lower leg and the femur and 8.5 cm in the humerus.
Limb lengthening is useful in many cases of dwarfism due to skeletal dysplasia.
There are a number of risks and possible complications involved and the procedure also requires considerable time.
We report the results of 48 patients with dwarfism operated on in the Orthopädische Kinderklinik Aschau (Orthopaedic Hospital for Children).
Process-Experiential (PE) therapy is a neo-humanistic treatment that strives to maintain a creative tension between a client-centered emphasis on a genuine, prizing, empathic relationship and the active, task-focused process-directive style of Gestalt therapy.
A research-informed treatment (Grawe 1997), its theory of function and dysfunction has been updated via contributions from contemporary psychological theory.
It incorporates a set of key therapeutic tasks, each of which is characterized by a specific client marker and resolution state, series of steps clients pass through on their way to resolution, and therapist interventions used to facilitate client progress through those steps.
The first part of this review provides an overview of Process-Experiential therapy, including theoretical foundation, that is, emotion theory, dialectical constructivism, and task analytic process orientation, and the basic treatment principles.
Malnutrition is a common finding amongst our elders.
The causes of malnutrition are multifactorial and although they have been extensively studied, they are not entirely understood.
Both physiological and pathological processes of aging put this population at a higher risk of being undernourished.
These may be related to social, financial, psychological and/or physiological changes directly or indirectly associated to growing old.
We report on a 76-year-old female patient with clinical findings consistent with necrolytic migratory erythema.
Plasma glucagon levels were slightly elevated, but advanced radiologic techniques revealed no evidence of an underlying pancreatic tumour.
The dermatosis responded excellently to oral therapy with dapsone.
The possible aetiology and pathogenesis of the "pseudoglucagonoma syndrome" are discussed.
Complications during cataract surgery such as dropped nucleus or lens fragment dislocation into the vitreous cavity may become sight threatening.
The recommendations regarding possible therapeutic approaches are inconsistent.
Several factors like uveitis and/or an increased intraocular pressure play a major role in the decision on the further surgical procedure.
Recent publications recommend an early pars plana approach in order to avoid any traction at the peripheral retina during manipulations via a limbal approach.
The authors describe the histopathology of the resting cartilage and the growth plate in a case of diastrophic dysplasia and review the differential diagnosis with pseudodiastrophic dysplasia and atelosteogenesis type II.
Objective: Hypoplastic left heart (HLH) is a complex developmental malformation of the left ventricle, aorta, and associated valves.
Survival beyond neonatal period is the exception in untreated infants.
The prognosis, however, is no longer hopeless.
Clinical stabilization of a neonate with HLH is appropriate until a management decision, based on appropriate parental counselling, can be made.
Forty-one patients demonstrating clinical symptoms for cerebral infarction were investigated by magnetic resonance imaging with diffusion-weighted echo-planar imaging (DWI) and T2-weighted imaging (T2WI).
In 8 patients only DWI showed the cerebral lesions clearly.
One patient with positive DWI and T2WI suffered from HSV encephalitis.
DWI is superior to T2WI in assessment of small cortical infarcts and cerebral infarction in patients with preexisting vascular lesions.
DWI is not specific, so other causes like cerebral hematoma and encephalitis have to be considered.
Juvenile polyposis was first described by Cronkhite and Canada in 1955.
This disease is characterized by juvenile intestinal polyps and ectodermal abnormalities.
The etiology of Cronkhite-Canada syndrome (CCS), however, is still not well understood.
Interestingly, among patients with CCS a significant correlation (16.5 %) with intestinal carcinomas has been observed.
Thus, malignant transformation and/or genetic predisposition may be involved in the initiation of the disease.
In the following, epidemiology, symptoms, morphology and therapy of CCS are discussed.
Our examinations are based on studies reported in the literature and on a case report of a female patient who developed a colon carcinoma 2 years after initial diagnosis of CCS.
Pacemaker erythema is a rare, irreversible side effect of cardiac pacemakers, clinically characterized by epifocal teleangiectatic erythema.
Histology reveals teleangiectatic vessels in the superficial dermis and a slight perivascular infiltrate.
We report on three patients presenting with pacemaker erythema following either pacemaker or defibrillator implantation.
The pathogenesis of this histopathologically uncharacteristic lesion is unknown.
In contrast to peri- or postoperative pacemaker infections, physical irritation can be considered a possible triggering mechanism.
Allergic reactions to the implanted material have been ruled out by negative patch test results.
The present legal requirements for the prescription of controlled drugs remains an impediment to adequate therapy for chronic pain because of an abundance of legal regulations.
The physician prescribing opioids must consider the permitted maximum amount per prescription, the period of time the drug is prescribed for, numerous cross references, and other special regulations, and he still cannot be sure that he does not violate certain legal requirements.
Often these difficulties result in withholding necessary pain treatment!
In the authors' opinion it should be sufficient to write a specific prescription form for controlled drugs in the same way as any other ordinary prescription without jeopardizing the safety of the drug control system.
It is important that the use of the narcotic be justified in the sense of § 13 Abs.
1 of the drug control regulation, as judged by the responsible prescriber of the drug, and that any offence be punished.
The use of triplicate prescriptions guarantees sufficient proof.
Legislation is requested that will substitute for the present drug control regulations, which are difficult to handle.
The aim of the study was to investigate the ability to activate the quadriceps femoris muscle voluntarily in patients after severe knee injuries and it's influence on muscle function.
33 male patients after ACL-rupture with concomitant injuries were investigated with a twitch-interpolation-method to determine the maximal voluntary contraction force (MVC) and the ability to activate the quadriceps muscle voluntarily.
The results were compared to a previously investigated group of patients after isolated ACL-rupture and to an aged-matched control group.
Managed care, i.e., the integration of health insurance and delivery of care under the direction of one organization, is gaining importance in the USA health market.
The initial effects consisted of a decrease in insurance premiums, a very attractive feature for employers.
Managed care promises to contain expenditures for health care.
Given the shrinking public resources in Germany, managed care seems attractive for the German health system, too.
In this review the development of managed care, the principal elements, forms of organisation and practical tools are outlined.
The regulation of the delivery of care by means of controlling and financial incentives threatens the autonomy of physicians: the physician must act as a "double agent", caring for the interest for the individual patient and being restricted by the contract with the managed care organisation.
Cost containment by managed care was achieved by reducing the fees for physicians and hospitals (and partly by restricting care for patients).
Only a fraction of this cost reduction was handed over to the enrollee or employer, and most of the money was returned with profit to the shareholders of the managed care organisations.
The preeminent role of primary care physicians as gatekeepers of the health network led to a reduced demand for specialist services in general and for university hospitals and anesthesiologists in particular.
The paradigm of managed care, i.e., to guide the patient and the care giver through the health care system in order to achieve cost-effective and high quality care, seems very attractive.
The stress on cost minimization by any means in the daily practice of managed care makes it doubtful if managed care should be an option for the German health system, in particular because there are a number of restrictions on it in German law.
Background: Analysis of the impact of head fractures, intracranial hemorrhages, brain edema, and prognostic risk factors on long-term outcome in children with severe head injury.
Background: In the past, the main problem of transscleral cyclophotocoagulation was related to the energy dosage of the individual effect.
Since the target tissue is not directly observable, no information about the coagulation process was available to the surgeon.
High inter- and intraindividual variations of the tissue properties often led to under- or overdosage.
Underdosage is therapeutically useless, while overdosage causes the so-called "popeffects" which may induce severe damage to the eye.
In the past, most scientific or routine studies on heart rate variability (HRV) were done using commercial Holter ECG devices with traditional magnetic tapes.
All methods to calculate parameters of HRV are based on the measurement of time intervals between successive sinus cardiac beats, in practice RR intervals.
Hence, results of HRV calculation depend on the quality of primary data acquisition.
However, technical standards on accuracy of RR interval acquisition in magnetic tape and digital solid state Holter ECG systems do not exist as yet.
Therefore in a laboratory investigation accuracy of HRV parameter calculation after traditional standard tape with and without real-time analysis and digital solid state data acquisition was compared in three commercial Holter ECG systems [Ela medical (E), Oxford Medilog Excel (O) and Medset Cardiolight (M)].
A computer-based ECG simulator was used to synthesize a test signal consisting of artificial P-QRS complexes of fixed rate, quartz stabilized "sinus rhythms".
Two channel analog tape and digital 24h recordings of the fixed rate test signal were performed simultaneously.
The influence of recording technology on accuracy of RR interval measurement and consequently on time domaine HRV was shown by comparing five standard 24-h time domain parameters.
As expected, in the three Holter systems the analog tape recordings showed a higher, technically induced, artificial RR variability.
The SDNN values (E: 9.38ms vs 2.68ms; p<0.001; O: 3.89ms vs 0.97ms; p<0.001; M: 10.47ms vs 2.89ms; p=0.001), SDNN-Index values (E: 8.22ms vs 0.90ms; p<0.001; O: 3.75ms vs 0.90ms; p<0.001; M: 7.81ms vs 1.49ms, p<0.001) and RMSSD-values (E: 10.39ms vs 2.16ms; p<0.001; O: 10.05ms vs 1.88ms, p<0.001; M: 8.62ms vs 1.69ms; p<0.001) were significantly lower if acquisition was done by digital solid devices in all systems, SDANN (M: 9.83ms vs 5.37ms; p<0.001) in the Medset system too.
The used method is a possible way to validate commercial Holter ECG systems for HRV analysis.
Clinical significance of artifical HRV seems to be low.
Cases of gallstone ileus (108) were analyzed retrospectively over 30 years.
Even today, when laparoscopic cholecystectomy is done, the incidence of this rare disease remains the same.
History, clinical and X-ray findings are non-specific.
Aerobilia was seen in 17 % of the patients.
Since 1992 sonography has proveded an exact diagnosis in 10 of 15 cases.
In the triad of known gallstone, non-specific epigastric pain with assumed small intestinal obstruction, and impossible detection of a stone in the gallbladder, there is strong suspicion of a gallstone ileus.
The evidence is given if the gallstone is seen in the bowels.
Intraoperatively more than one stone was found in the intestines in 20 %, and cholecystoduodenal fistulas were encountered in 83 %.
There has been no significant change in mortality for 30 years.
Autologous transplantation in brachial plexus injuries has become significantly more efficacious through increased knowledge of the microtopographic anatomy of the fascicle structures and the refinement of microneurosurgical techniques.
Recovery of shoulder and upper arm functions can be achieved with autologous transplantation in the majority of patients under optimized conditions.
However, attempts to restore forearm, hand and finger functions in this way have been disappointing so far.
Therapeutic success is primarily governed by early decision making, selection of adequate surgical strategies and intensive and longlasting postoperative management.
Leg venectasia is a common problem.
Although there are a variety of therapeutic modalities, none of them gives satisfactory results.
The effects of sclerotherapy in the treatment of telangiectasia with a small diameter are poor.
Electrocoagulation and argon laser treatment often result in scarring.
We studied the effectiveness of the flashlamp pumped pulsed dye laser at a wavelength of 585 nm in the treatment of leg venectasia.
After repeated treatments using this laser system, only 30% of the vessels that looked blue on clinical examination could be removed; we obtained better lightening of smaller red, telangiectatic vessels with a diameter up to 0.4 mm.
However, hyperpigmentation frequently developed after treatment.
In post-treatment biopsies, occlusion of the vessels was found.
Based on these results, we recommend a combined therapy for leg venectasia.
Larger diameter vessels should be treated with sclerotherapy, while finer telangiectasia can be treated with the flashlamp pumped pulsed dye laser.
Total hip replacement is often recommended for the treatment of femoral neck fractures in elderly patients.
A less invasive approach with shorter operating time is the replacement of the femoral head only, leaving the acetabular cartilage in situ.
Hemiarthroplastic hip replacement using a metallic head prosthesis was not successful in the past, because the majority of patients developed protrusio acetabuli after surgery.
In the present study hemiarthroplastic hip replacement using an Al2O3-ceramic head was shown to be a useful method for the treatment of femoral neck fractures in elderly patients.
From 1985 to 1990 277 patients were treated with hemiarthroplasty.
The average age at the time of accident and operation was 81.7 years.
At the time of follow-up in 1993 only 77 survivors were available for examination.
A standardized score was calculated assessing activity, gait, hip pain, etc., with the patients obtaining an average score of 58 out of a possible 78 points.
Only three patients had hip pain, and in four cases the roentgenographic examination revealed protrusio acetabuli.
Two of these four patients underwent revision surgery for replacement of the cup, leaving the stem in situ.
In view of the small number of approach-related complications, hemiarthroplastic hip replacement using an Al2O3-ceramic head is the recommended surgical treatment for femoral neck fractures in elderly patients.
In the rare patient with protrusio acetabuli, revision surgery can be performed to replace the cup, leaving the stem in situ.
Functional relaxation (FE), a somato-psychotherapeutic method, can reduce asthmatic symptoms.
The efficiency of a 5 minute introduction of elements of functional relaxation (EFE) is compared with a placebo-relaxation-method not based on the hypothetical mechanisms of FE, and a standardised pharmacological bronchodilative test using salbutamol.
In a controlled prospective randomised single blind setting 18 children and adolescents with acute asthma were treated on three consecutive days with each method.
Before and ten minutes after therapy the patients had bodyplethysmographic pulmonary function testing.
U-Tests showed that the baseline measurements were comparable.
The before-after-comparison revealed significant changes for EFE and salbutamol, not for the placebo-relaxation.
There were significant differences between the intraindividual differences of the airway resistance and the specific airway resistance between salbutamol and the placebo-relaxation, not between EFE and salbutamol or EFE and the placebo-relaxation.
FE can be an effective complementary treatment in children or adolescents with asthma.
The following three case studies will prove, that the sonographic diagnosis of a fatty liver is often related to a metabolic disease, beginning at the age of 4 to 5 years in conjunction with the Morbus Wilson.
3D Ultrasound will find in the next years a wide popularity under the medical imaging applications.
The method expands the well-known sonography on the third dimension, therefore it becomes possible to generate  spatial 3D views of internal organs.
It is further possible to display static (3D) as well as  dynamic organs (4D, e.g.
The clarity of the three-dimensional presentation supports very effectively the navigation.
58 patients following Gustilo IIIB open tibial fractures, treated by serial debridements, osteosynthesis and microvascular free tissue transfer were investigated after an average of 6 years.
Assessment of life satisfaction was done by means of a proven valid and reliable test instrument (FLZ - "Fragen zur Lebenszufriedenheit").
Further specific questions on treatment satisfaction, aesthetic result, occupation and income were added to this questionnaire.
Significant discrepancies of the items recreational activities, income, occupation and partnership, productivity, mobility and pain were evaluated in comparison to available data of healthy west german population.
The calculated global index of life satisfaction and health differed significantly from the established index of west german population.
Although specific aspects like aesthetic result, donor site morbidity, pain and even function were critically judged, 91 % of the patients were satisfied with the long term result of the treatment.
None of the patients thought that an initial amputation probably might have been a better solution.
The postrehabilitation employment rate was 64 %.
Limb salvage of Gustilo IIIB fractures by means of a multidisciplinary treatment protocol is able to afford useful and satisfying long time results.
However, an impairment of quality of life, at least in specific items has to be considered.
The case of a 10-year-old boy with post-traumatic priapism after perineal trauma is presented.
Interdisciplinary treatment using angiography and selective catheter embolization for juvenile high-flow priapism is demonstrated.
The literature and the diagnostic possibilities resulting from color duplex sonography are discussed.
Only 53%-58% of patients with a subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAB) following the rupture of a cerebral aneurysm survive without neurological damage.
Morbidity and mortality are closely related to the delayed ischaemic neurological deficit due to cerebral vasospasm.
The following review gives an account of pathophysiological mechanisms; the importance of treatment with calcium antagonists, hypervolaemic haemodilution, and induced arterial hypertension is discussed in light of the current literature.
During the last decade an unusual amicrobial intertriginous pustulosis has been described in association with autoimmune disease in sixteen female patients.
The clinical hallmark is a sterile pustular dermatosis preferentially located in intertriginous regions that responds to local or systemic corticosteroids.
Histologic features are subcorneal sometimes spongiform neutrophilic pustules.
We report an additional patient suffering from this unusual dermatosis.
An overview of the patients described to date and a review of the literature are given in an attempt to delineate this amicrobial intertriginous pustulosis from the known pustular dermatoses.
The area "Environment and Health" is characterized by interdisciplinary features and, consequently, an intense need for communication.
In addition it has to be considered that sometimes there are difficulties in terms of information search.
A comparison of national problem solving strategies concerning electronic network activities within this area led to the development project for a European information and communication platform.
By this electronic platform the international exchange of experiences, coordination of activities, harmonization efforts and an optimization of qualification possibilities for environmental health professionals will become easier.
Objectives Intertrochanteric adduction osteotomy to delay or prevent the development of a coxofemoral osteoarthritis.
No removal of bony wedge thus avoiding leg shortening.
The aim of this study was to analyze the localization and distribution of extracellular matrix in normal and glaucomatous damaged optic discs using immunohistochemical methods.
Five eyes donated for corneal allografting without any history of glaucoma and three other eyes with secondary glaucoma were studied.
Immunohistochemical reactions were performed with antibodies against collagen types I, III, IV and VI and against laminin, proliferating antigen KI 67 and GFAP.
In glaucomatous eyes the characteristic arrangement of collagen fibrils is lacking.
Septa of the lamina cribrosa appear enlarged.
The immunoreactivity of all examined collagen types is stronger in glaucomatous eyes.
The axon basement membranes show an irregular and interrupted pattern.
The number of proliferating cells with positive GFAP staining in glaucomatous cribriform plates is distinctly higher.
We postulate that fibroblasts and astrocytes in the stroma of glaucomatous lamina cribrosa could be stimulated to increased and uncontrolled proliferation.
Associated disorganization and raised secretion of extracellular matrix may lead to axon constriction and, secondarily, to neural degeneration.
Concomitant pathologies (labral lesions, intra-/extra-osseous ganglia and stress bone marrow edema) in adult residual hip dysplasia (RHD) might influence the outcome of conservative hip surgery.
The aim of our prospective clinical study was to assess the value of preoperative MR arthrography in diagnosing concomitant lesions and in making surgical decisions in RHD.
The first 37 consecutive patients with a minimum follow-up of 18 months have been analysed.
All 37 patients presented RHD with the clinical symptomatology of labral lesions and underwent routine preoperative MRA.
According to clinical, radiological and MR arthrographical criteria, these 37 patients were subdivided into four therapeutic subgroups: (1) reorientation of the acetabulum using the Tönnis triple pelvic osteotomy (TPO); (2) intertrochanteric varisation osteotomy (IVO); (3) palliative decompression with only symptomatic partial resection of the torn labrum (PALL); (4) primary total hip replacement (TEP).
Based on the preliminary clinical and radiological outcomes of these four subgroups, the following conclusions can be drawn: labral lesions are considered to be a sign of chronic joint instability.
Therefore, acetabular malorientation should be corrected by redirectional osteotomy of the acetabulum (TPO-subgroup) even in low grades of RHD if labral lesions are present.
"Palliative" labral resections without corrective osteotomy (PALL subgroup) in secondary osteoarthritis due to RHD are definitively obsolete, because they rapidly progress to severe osteoarthritis due to surgically accelerated joint instability.
In RHD with highly osteoarthritic hip joints and concomitant lesions, one should not hesitate to perform primary THR even in young patients.
Severe infections of the talus are often associated with complete septic collapse of the talus.
In this connection, open fractures with defects or significant comminution have a bad prognosis is as far as reconstruction of the talus is concerned.
In the Department of Traumatology, Braunschweig, in 1995 three patients (all male, average age 35.3 +/- 10.2 years) were treated with cancellous bone grafting after talectomy performed because of infection and complete septic collapse of the talus.
In two of these cases third-degree open total dislocation of the talus had been sustained.
The third patient came to us after undergoing arthroscopy of the ankle region in another hospital.
In each case a fulminating infection was the outcome.
Following a step-by-step algorithm, in a first step urgent radical debridement with talectomy was done.
To maintain approximation between the tibia and calcaneus on one side and the os naviculare on the other, the bony defect was filled with PMMA chains and the external fixateur technique was used for immobilization during treatment of the infection.
After second- and third-look procedures a free flap was grown for soft tissue coverage within the first 10 days.
After 17.6 +/- 3.3 days the talus was replaced with a cancellous bone graft, combined with double arthrodesis in two cases, and external fixation for the next 4-5 weeks.
In the third patient a triple arthrodesis was done.
At follow-up after an average of 12 months (range 8-17 months), the bone graft with arthrodesis had been completely integrated in all cases.
All patients are free of symptoms in normal life.
In the case of severe open fractures of the talus with significant comminution combined with infection and septic bone collapse conservation of the talus is often impossible.
The combination of homologous cancellous bone grafting and arthrodesis after talectomy is therefore a good method of keeping any decrease in the function of the foot to a minimum.
Meningitis caused by Streptococcus suis was diagnosed in a 63 year old female in Austria.
Sixteen months after onset she still suffers from ataxia, disturbance of gait and bilateral hearing impairment.
Being a farmer, the patient belongs to a recognized high-risk-group, as most other infected people do.
To the best of our knowledge, there has been no report of a human infection by Streptococcus suis in Austria so far.
The results of neurophysiological tests excluded a direct lesion to the cochlea during the acute phase of meningitis, and thus, are in contrast to the guinea-pig-model by Kay, who showed suppurative labyrinthitis being the cause of hearing loss.
The present knowledge of Streptococcus suis meningitis with respect to neurophysiology, pathogenesis, epidemiology and increasing resistance against antibiotics is discussed.
The introduction of atypical antipsychotics has presented new options for the pharmacological treatment of schizophrenic patients.
It is assumed that in the near future, neuroleptic medication will shift from conventional to atypical antipsychotics for an increasing number of patients.
The present article addresses guidelines for the conversion from conventional to atypical neuroleptics in inpatient and outpatient settings.
Numerous epidemiological studies about multiple trauma patients do not include an analysis of patients under the age of 18.
To study this, the data of 682 patients with multiple traumata, treated between 1981 and 1991 at Hannover Medical School, Germany, were retrospectively analyzed.
The patients were divided into four age-related groups: preschool age (< 6 years), school age (< 13 years), teenagers (< 18 years) and adults (L 18 years).
Analyzed were the cause of trauma, localization of injuries and the cause of death.
Children were less often injured as passengers in cars, but more often injured as pedestrians and bicyclists than adults.
However, children showed a significant higher mortality than adults, with threefold increased risk of death when they injured as passengers in car accidents.
In all groups injuries to the head and the legs were most common.
Children showed a lower incidence of trauma to the thorax, abdomen, hip and arms than the adult group.
Nevertheless, trauma to the thorax, abdomen and head was associated with the highest risk of death in all groups.
Spinal cord injuries, especially injuries to the neck, also showed a high risk of death.
Children younger than 6 years had the most severe head injuries.
Safety improvements for children in cars, helmet usage on bicycles and early training in traffic safety for children might decrease the lethality in this group of trauma patients.
During the past 7 years 45 patients have been operated upon using the Childs-Phillips method.
Of those, 37 were subsequently examined for the study - 7 patients had died in the meantime.
None of the deaths occurred as a direct result of transmesenteric small-bowel plication.
An early recurrence of intestinal obstruction occurred in 4.4 % and a laparotomy was repeated.
During the most recent examinations 86.5 % of those patients checked had (virtually) no complaints - 91.9 % based upon the Visick classification.
A subtotal intestinal obstruction occurred during the period of the study in 8.1 % of cases, but could be conservatively treated.
Up until the most recent examination there were still no instances of a late recurrence.
Most intestinal obstruction recurrences are due to errors specific to the technique and are early recurrences.
On the basis of our results, we are of the opinion that plication in the presence of existing peritonitis, as well as partial plication, is acceptable.
To prospectively survey skin lesions in a large group of newborns, as no such study has as yet been performed in Germany.
We present the case of a 35-year-old patient suffering from schizoaffective psychosis.
After 4 weeks on clozapine he developed acute priapism.
Possible explanations and pathophysiology are discussed as well as the requirement for sufficient information of the patient.
Delay of urgent urologic treatment incrases the risk of irreversible impotence.
The patient's history should be evaluated with respect to former unphysiological prolonged erections.
The further development of 162 stroke patients (average age 77 years), who were geriatrically assessed during hospitalization, was evaluated ca.
Questionnaires were mailed to patients.
53% of the patients (n = 86) returned the questionnaire duly filled in; 20% (n = 32) had died; in the remaining 27% of cases (n = 44) no information was obtained on further development.
80% of those patients who responded lived at home despite numerous medical problems.
Family members assumed most of the care required.
Follow-up treatment and pain therapy proved to be particularly problematic.
The Barthel Index according to data collected was significantly lower compared to figures noted upon release from the hospital.
Hardly anyone among those patients received follow-up treatment.
74% of patients complained of pain although the majority has regular contacts with the family doctor.
For those patients who died in the 18 months interval, significantly lower values for the activities of daily living (ADL) has already been recorded upon hospitalization.
They had a less favorable view of their state of health and were less satisfied with life in general.
The routine staging work-up for renal cancer includes a contrast-enhanced multiphasic spiral CT and a chest radiograph.
If there is doubt regarding the presence and extent of (supradiaphragmatic) IVC thrombus, MR imaging should be performed.
Dynamic contrast-enhanced MR imaging should be used in place of CT in any patient with severe renal dysfunction, symptomatic polycystic kidney disease, or a history of allergy to iodinated contrast media.
Cavography is no longer needed in the era of (adaptive array detector) spiral CT and MR venography.
Patients: We report on four infants with nonketotic hyperglycinemia, three with a neonatal form and one with the milder infantile form.
Despite early diagnosis and persistent therapy including dextromethorphan and sodium benzoate, two infants with the neonatal form deteriorated progressively and died at the age of 16 and 50 months, respectively, only one survived severely retarded with seizures, opisthotonus and spastic quadriplegia.
The serum concentrations of glycine decreased following sodium benzoate treatment but cerebrospinal fluid/serum glycine ratio remained elevated with no improvement in clinical outcome.
The patient with the infantile form has been treated for over three years with dextromethorphan, and is now a severely retarded child without seizure activity and continuous psychomotor development.
Immunosuppression-related Candida infections may be most successfully treated using biological response modifiers and recombinant cytokines to enhance expression of host pro-inflammatory and antimicrobial mediators, notably tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-), interleukin 1 (IL-1), and gamma-interferon (gamma-IFN).
Important but unappreciated differences in the immunopathophysiology of fungal vs. bacterial infections make such cytokine priming appear contrary to current strategies for reducing cytokine-mediated organ injury and mortality due to gram-negative bacteremia and endotoxemia.
Optimistically, preclinical studies to date have found that the coadministration of such immunoadjuvants does not compromise, and actually may improve, the efficacy of synthetic antifungals.
Such combination therapies should continue to be evaluated in animal models of Candida infection which otherwise progress to lethal shock or chronic disseminated disease despite aggressive use of existing antifungal agents.
Bilateral neck exploration is the standard procedure in primary hyperparathyroidism.
Using a bilateral approach, preoperative localization studies are not mandatory.
A localized single gland disease is the basis for a minimally invasive procedure.
Therefore preoperative localization techniques play an important role in planning (minimally invasive) first time exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism.
The combination of 99 mTc-SestaMIBI scintigraphy with ultrasound allows correct localization of the parathyroid adenoma in 86 % of all single gland diseases.
Multiple gland disease could be predicted in isolated cases only.
Computerized tomography and magnetic resonance imaging could not improve the results.
Surgery for persistent or recurrent hyperparathyroidism should only be performed after positive localization studies.
Prehospital thrombolysis is often recommended for patients in whom a major time gain of >90 min compared to in-hospital therapy is expected.
It has been repeatedly shown by metropolitan rescue services that very early presentation after onset of symptoms in a high percentage of patients offers an additional chance for optimizing thrombolytic therapy.
More than half of all patients presenting with an acute myocardial infarction to the EMS may be treated within 90 min after symptom onset, enabling preservation of major myocardial areas at risk.
Thus, prehospital thrombolysis in metropolitan areas offers a chance to take advantage of an ideal time window, without additional risk.
Moreover, technical and diagnostic preconditions are easily fulfilled.
Low resection and intersphincteric extirpation of rectal cancer in the distal third of the rectum has become an accepted sphincter-saving method.
From December 1990 to December 1994, 42 patients (17 women and 25 men) with a mean age of 67.2 years had a low resection or extirpation of the rectum at our institution.
Eighteen patients received a transanal sutured anastomosis, 24 a stapler anastomosis.
We had a lethality rate of 2.5 % and a anastomotic insufficiency rate of 14 %.
"NoToX Histological Fixative" is a formaldehyde substitute for the fixation of tissues prior to histological investigation.
Intraoperative samples and necropsy tissue were tested.
NoToX was substituted for formaldehyde in the fixation step, otherwise the same manufacturer-specified protocols were used for all reagents.
Conventional histological and accepted immunohistological investigations, especially for tumour diagnosis, were used.
In all tests, results with NoToX-fixated tissue were similar to those with tissue fixed with formaldehyde regarding both staining and diagnosis.
NoToX is a useful substitute for formaldehyde.
The aim of this article is to provide current information on morphological parameters useful for a forensic age estimation of human skin wounds.
In addition to mainly cellular reactions detectable by routine histological or enzyme histochemical techniques, immunohistochemical parameters and their forensic value are especially discussed.
A dynamic helical CT scan following initial ultrasound provides reliable radiological staging for kidney traumas and immediate diagnosis of most abdominal injuries.
It also proves useful for pediatric traumas.
Using mainly CT data we apply a classification system proposed by the American Association for Surgery of Trauma (grade I-V).
The diagnostic steps and subsequent management are demonstrated by flow-chart.
Most renal traumas may be treated conservatively but persistent bleeding or persistent urinary extravasation may necessitate surgical intervention.
In cases of exploration of the kidney, the use of fibrin adhesive, alloplastic mesh capsule and DJ stents enables the reconstruction of the kidney.
Exploration of the renal injury should never be omitted if urgent laparotomy is indicated for associated injuries.
With worldwide over 1million applications, vascular closure devices have been established as an essential tool of invasive cardiology.
This overview compares today's four commercially available closure devices, VasoSeal (VS), Angio-SealTM (AS), Perclose, Inc. (PC) and DuettTM (DU) for their usefulness after coronary interventions.
The published data regarding deployment success rates for VS, AS, PC and DU are in the range of 88%, 91%, 90% and 98% up to 100%, respectively.
Times to hemostasis were 5-13', 2-4', 11-19' and 4-14', accompanied by times to mobilization of 6-9h, 6-8h, 4-7h and 2-6h.
Minor complications were described in 8%, 5.9%, 5.3% and 2.1%, major complications in 5.3%, 1.3%, 4% and 2.6%.
Although none of the closure devices has been shown to reduce major local complications as compared to manual compression, all sealing devices have documented a significant reduction in time to hemostasis.
The increased patient comfort is essentially related to the ability of sheath removal immediately after PTCA.
Vascular closure devices reduce the burden of medical staff and decrease hospital costs by earlier discharge.
Amniotic fluid is a major factor of the intrauterine environment, and deviation from the normal volume is associated with an increased perinatal morbidity and mortality.
Polyhydramnios occurs in 0.2 to 1.6 % of pregnancies.
It may be due to a number of congenital anomalies, an abnormal karyotype, maternal diabetes, Rh-disease or intrauterine infections potentially requiring non-invasive or invasive measures.
However, the most common indication for prenatal intervention due to polyhydramnios is the Twin-Twin-Transfusion Syndrom (TTTS).
Treatment of polyhydramnios may focus on correction of the causative lesion, or symptomatic relief through drainage of amniotic fluid.
Maternal administration of cyclooxygenase inhibitors represents a further, non-invasive therapeutic option.
Indomethacin, Sulindac, or Nimesulide reduce the fetal urine output thus decreasing amniotic fluid volume over time without the risks associated with invasive procedures.
However, potentially serious ductal constriction as well as a delay in the onset of amniotic fluid reduction have limited its application.
Percutaneous amniotic fluid drainage may provide immediate reduction of intrauterine pressure, but is associated with a complication rate of 1 to 1.5 %.
The hemodynamic characteristics of monochorionic pregnancies complicated by TTTS have led to the development of endoscopic laser coagulation of placental vascular anastomoses as a definitive treatment.
Treatment is only required in a small minoritiy of pregnancies with polyhydramnios.
Mild cases can be managed expectatively.
Intrauterine pressure increases with an excessive increase in amniotic fluid volume (AFI > 400 mm or MVP > 150 mm) leads to the elevation of intrauterine pressure.
Complications such as preterm premature rupture of membranes and preterm labor may lead to premature delivery.
The main goal of prenatal treatment of polyhydramnios is thus the improvement of fetal outcome through prolongation of gestation and/or the alleviation of maternal symptoms.
With the recent developments in computer technology and the improvements in modern neuroimaging, frame-based stereotactic guidance for open microsurgical procedures has been increasingly replaced by neuronavigation, also called frameless stereotaxy.
It allows transfer of individual patient's images onto the operative field to assist the neurosurgeon intraoperatively in defining the tumor margins or identifying functionally important brain areas.
The different localization techniques employed are articulated position-sensing arms, infrared or ultrasound systems working with the principle of satellite navigation and robotic systems integrated with the operating microscope.
In 200 operations performed with different systems (arm-based, robotic and infrared) the method proved to be helpful, enabling fewer invasive procedures to be performed.
With a mean deviation of 2.87 +/- 1.9 mm for intraoperative localization, the accuracy was only slightly worse than in frame-based stereotaxy with deviations below 2 mm.
Neuronavigation was most helpful for operations on deeply seated lesions, skull-base tumors and lesions in brain areas with high functionality.
The major disadvantage is the use of preoperative data for navigation, leading to inaccuracies when anatomical structures are altered during the operation by resection of tumors or shift of intracranial soft tissue.
Intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) might be a solution for this problem.
With the method of intraoperative MRI developed in our department it has already been possible to update neuronavigation with images reflecting intraoperative changes in anatomy.
Therefore, neuronavigation is definitely a method with growing importance in operative routine, and it will also spread into other surgical specialties.
Severe pain of mucositis induced by cytostatic conditioning therapy in bone marrow transplantation (BMT) patients generally requires continuous parenteral opioid treatment.
Cognitive and psychological disturbances are frequent complications subsequent to BMT and may result from cerebral opioid side effects.
The aim of the study was to evaluate the efficiency of continuous morphine in mucositis pain and the side-effects in BMT patients.
Particular emphasis was placed on the question of whether reaction times, which are usually measured to estimate opioid effects upon vigilance, are influenced by pain-induced cognitive impairments in pain patients.
Methods While in hospital, 10 BMT patients were examined daily with the aid of a mucositis scale, subjective visual analog scales (VAS) for pain and mood parameters, a German version of the McGill pain questionnaire (MPQ), and a mental performance task battery, and the morphine given was documented.
Mental performance tests were simple auditory reaction time and choice reaction time.
Seven patients also performed a Sternberg memory search test in which they had to use 'yes' and 'no' response keys to match visually presented test letters to a previously memorized set of letters.
Practice and baseline data were collected within the first week before BMT.
Results The intensity and duration of mucositis differed from patient to patient, resulting in different pain intensities and MPQ scores.
Prolongation of the choice reaction time averaged over the period of mucositis treatment correlated significantly with residual pain intensity (Spearman rs = 0.88, p < 0.01) but not with morphine dose (rs = 0.35, p = 0.33).
For the Sternberg memory search test greater correlation coefficients resulted between reaction time and morphine dose (rs = 0.86, p = 0.014) than between reaction time and residual pain intensity (rs = 0.61, p = 0.15).
In turn, pain intensity, unlike morphine dose, was significantly correlated with high scores in the mood parameters for depression, passivity, and tiredness.
Conclusions It is concluded that both pain and morphine can impair cognitive performance, but that these mental stressors seem to differ according to qualitative criteria.
Whereas pain might slow reaction time by distracting a patient's attention, particularly in low mental demand tasks, morphine could interfere with more specific cognitive processes, such as short-term memory operations, that are required in more complex tasks.
The case of a 63-year-old man with a widespread retroperitoneal tumor and two tumor nodules in the left testis is described.
Histopathological and cytopathological examination of tissue from the retroperitoneal tumor led to a diagnosis of lymphoreticular neoplasia.
The patient died in acute cardiac failure, five weeks after initial presentation.
Autopsy revealed another tumor nodule in the right atrium.
Macroscopically, the bone marrow appeared normal.
The tumor cells were reactive for CD45, vimentin and chloroacetate esterase, but were unreactive with a broad spectrum of antibodies against myelomonocytic and lymphocytic antigens and antibodies against tryptase and c-kit (CD117), characteristic markers for mast cells.
However, the bone marrow exhibited the typical picture of mastocytosis.
A diagnosis of bone marrow mastocytosis with an associated secondary extramedullary mast cell sarcoma was established.
The cause of death was heart failure due to arrhythmia caused by an exophytic atrioseptal tumor nodule.
Thrombembolic events as paraneoplastic complications in malignant disease account for severe morbidity and mortality in these patients.
In some cases disturbance in hemostasis is the first manifestation of a neoplastic process.
We report the cases of two patients with cerebral and extracerebral vessel occlusions, in whom epithelial tumors of low malignant potential (borderline-tumors) of ovar and peritoneum were diagnosed later on.
In one case the removal of the tumor stopped the coagulation problems.
The second patient died a few days after the first symptoms with devastating multiple vessel occlusion.
In stroke of unknown aetiology a paraneoplastic process should be kept in mind.
The diagnosis is more probable with recurrent thrombembolism in different body regions and when warfarin therapie was ineffective.
Thoughtful coagulation studies and a tumor search program is recommended in these cases.
Brain-stem gliomas occur mainly in childhood and are localized in the mesencephalon, pons and medulla oblongata.
Diagnosis is a domain of MRI, requiring T2, T1 and KM.
CT shows hemorrhage and calcification well.
The criteria are the primary site, size, tumor growth, brain-stem enlargement, delineation, intralesional structure, exophytic components and enhancement.
Secondary criteria are herniation, hydrocephalus and liquorgenic seeding.
In CT glioma are hypodense, in MRI hyperintense in T2 and hypointense in T1.
Enhancement is seen in 25-60% and does not allow differentiation of tumor vs nontumor or gradings.
Factors influencing poor outcome are high grade, a short history, cranial nerve involvement, severe brain-stem enlargement, pontine site, diffuse growth and recurrency.
The 5-year-survival rate is 30% (after radiation: focal tumors 85%, diffuse 20%).
Most frequent are symptoms of brain pressure, cerebellum, cranial nerves and pyramidal tract.
There is no agreement on whether biopsy is necessary or not.
A diagnosis of tumor is highly suggestive if classical MRI findings fit the clinical history.
Radiobiological and physical examinations suggest clinical advantages of heavy ion irradiation.
We report the result of 23 women and 22 men (median age 48 years) with skull base tumors irradiated with carbon ion beams at the Gesellschaft für Schwerionenforschung (GSI), Darmstadt, from December 1997 until September 1999.
The study included patients with chordomas (17), chondrosarcomas (10) and other skull base tumors (Table 1).
It is the first time that the intensity-controlled rasterscan-technique and the application of positron-emission tomography (PET) for quality assurance was used.
All patients had computed tomography for three-dimensional-treatment planning (Figure 1).
Patients with chordomas and chondrosarcomas underwent fractionated carbon ion irradiation in 20 consecutive days (median total dose 60 GyE).
Other histologies were treated with carbon ion boost of 15 to 18 GyE delivered to the macroscopeic tumor after fractionated stereotatic radiotherapy (median total dose 63 GyE).
Mean follow-up was 9 months.
Irradiation was well tolerated by all patients.
Partial tumor remission was seen in 7 patients (15,5%) (Figure 2).
One-year local control rate was 94%.
One patient (2,2%) deceased.
No severe toxicity and no local recurrence within the treated volume were observed.
Clinical effectiveness and technical feasibility of this modality could clearly be demonstrated in our study.
To evaluate the clinical relevance of the different beam modalities studies with larger patient numbers are necessary.
To continue our project a new heavy ion acclerator exclusively for clinical use is planed to be constructed in Heidelberg.
Indirect trauma to the shoulder and knee joint often results in injuries to the ligaments and the capsule, and more rarely in fractures.
Anterior shoulder dislocation is common.
Over the last few years arthroscopic repair of the torn labrum has become established as the therapy of choice.
Isolated ruptures of the collateral ligaments of the knee can be treated functionally.
A torn anterior cruciate ligament of the knee joint can be compensated by the quadriceps muscle if this is adequately prepared by special exercises.
Chronic or combined instabilities should be treated surgically by ACI grafting techniques.
Menisceal injuries are treated arthroscopically.
Objective: Comparison of low back pain (LBP) patients with and without fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) with regard to affective distress.
Methods: Patients with LBP who had been admitted to various clinics in Germany were examined upon admission.
Comparisons were done by dividing the patients into groups with and without signs of FMS.
Additionally, both groups were compared after being matched according to sex, age, and pain severity.
Results: 15 out of 135 LBP patients met the American College of Rheumatology criteria for fibromyalgia.
Patients with FMS showed remarkably higher levels of pain severity and affective distress.
After controlling for different levels of pain severity, these pronounced differences disappeared.
Conclusion: Affective distress is not a unique feature of FMS, but seem to be caused entirely by higher levels of pain severity.
Methods: Cases of invasive HI-infections were reported in a national active surveillance program.
The case definition required the typical clinical picture and a HI positive culture from a physiologically sterile site (or throat swab or tracheal aspirate in case of epiglottitis or pneumonia) in children up to 10 years.
All initial reports were validated with a questionnaire that additionally questioned the vaccination status, type of vaccine, therapy, outcome of the disease and characteristics of the bacteria.
The relation between the type of Hib vaccine used on the risk of infection was analysed in a case control study with controls selected at random from a population based sampling frame.
Results: 310 confirmed cases of invasive HI infections were reported during the observation period, 199 of these with meningitis, 56 with epiglottitis.
The number of cases declined from 71 in the last six months of 1992, 120 in 1993, and 65 in 1994 to 54 cases in 1995.
In 1995 the incidence in up to 5 year old children was 1.1/100 000 for all infection sites and 0.7/100 000 for meningitis.
The reduced rates were mainly due to a decrease in the number of unvaccinated cases, whereas the number of cases in vaccinated children fluctuated between 22 and 36 per year.
Most of these were observed in incompletely vaccinated children, who according to the German recommendations could already have received at least one further vaccination at the time of the infection.
The type of vaccine (HbOC, PRP-D or OMP) was not significantly associated with the risk of infection in vaccinated children.
10 % of the bacteria produced betalactamase.
In accordance with the German recommendations third generation cephalosporines were used in almost all cases of meningitis.
One third of these, however, received additional antibiotics.
Conclusions: The present incidence of systemic HI infections in Germany is low.
A further decrease, however, would be possible with "on time" completion of the vaccination schedule according to the German recommendations in all children.
For more than a century peritoneal adhesions are being recognized as frequent sequelae following abdominal surgery.
Intraoperative lesions of the mesothelial lining by abrasion, ischemia, dissication, and foreign bodies result in complaints, intestinal obstruction, female infertility, and problems during reoperations.
The global increase of life expectancy and surgical procedures are leading to rising incidences of adhesion-related complications and subsequent socio-economic implications.
As of today, there is no safe and efficient prophylaxis available.
Scientific efforts should be aimed at a liquid substance for single intraperitoneal application which significantly reduces postoperative adhesions at reasonable cost without adverse effects on blood coagulation and wound healing.
Even today the name of F. D. von Recklinghausen is often mentioned in connection with primary and secondary hyperparathyroidism.
He was one of the first physicians and scientists to render outstanding services to the classification of structural changes of bones, and in many aspects his work remains valid today.
He succeeded through precise and comparative studies in making the disease and symptoms of primary hyperparathyroidism known and thus distinguishing it from other known structural bone diseases.
He also described the phenomenon of "bone remodeling" which has become relevant today again.
Although his written macroscopic and microscopic observations include meticulously precise differentiations which make it difficult to study them today, they are still of interest in order to follow his basic ideas.
This article does not constitute a comprehensive biography, but it contains a description of F. D. von Recklinghausen's important work on bone pathology against the background of the main stages of his life.
Soft-tissue sarcomas (STS) of the extremities are characterized by a high rate of local recurrences.
Limb salvage approaches using multimodality therapy protocols have replaced amputation.
In order to evaluate isolated hyperthermic limb perfusion (ILP) in a multimodality therapy concept, we reviewed our patients treated using this method.
Between January 1982 and December 1995, 25 ILPs, using cisplatin, melphalan and adriamycin, were performed in 22 patients with STS.
Forty percent were treated for local recurrences; histology was dominated by malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH) and synovial sarcoma.
In all, 68 % of the STS were classified as UICC stage IIb or IIIa/b.
Most of the cases (14) underwent wide or radical resection, 4 patients received intraoperative radiotherapy, and 5 were treated with external beam radiation.
Complications were recorded in 32 % of the cases.
With a median follow-up of 45 months (range 1-143), the 5-year overall survival rate was 81 %.
The median recurrence-free time was 19 months and the 5-year disease-free survival rate 34 %.
There were 13 local failures, and distant metastases developed in 36 % of the patients.
Concerning high-grade sarcomas (UICC stage IIb, IIIa/b), we found local recurrences in 75 % of all cases.
Five of 11 patients with local failures underwent perfusion after they refused amputation, and 7 incompletely resected STS received ILP without reoperation.
All of these demonstrated local recurrence.
This rate of local recurrence proved to be different from patients with tumor-free resection margins (p = 0.0001, log-rank test).
The amputation rate after isolated limb perfusion was 27 % (mean 11 months after treatment).
Long-term results of ILP showed a considerable local recurrence rate and a low disease-free survival.
Perfusion in patients without tumor-free resection margins does not prevent local recurrence.
We conclude that ILP with cisplatin, melphalan and adriamycin should be considered carefully and is not an additional treatment strategy of first choice.
Infections with the grampositive bacterium Clostridium difficile occurs mostly in worst ill, multimorbide patients treated with cytostatica or antibiotics.
We report about two healthy children with pseudomembranous colitis caused by Clostridium difficile without an underlying illness or a former history of antibiotic treatment.
Huntington's disease (HD) may cause considerable diagnostic problems because of the highly variable clinical features, especially at the beginning of the illness.
We report the case of a 21-year-old woman with definite HD whose main symptoms were psychopathological changes that were misinterpreted as schizophrenia for 7 years.
One reason for this misdiagnosis was the unusual, very early onset and the remarkable earlier age of onset of HD compared with that of other affected relatives.
The phenomenon of earlier onset within one affected family is well documented in the literature in cases with the paternally transmitted mutated gene.
Diagnostic landmarks were consideration of the initially mild disturbances of movement and the once again repeated detailed examination of the family history.
ICD-10 is to be implemented for morbidity coding in Germany soon.
The electronic versions of ICD-10 are introduced.
For everyday work with the classification and for epidemiological research further tools are provided by DIMDI: ICD-10 meta files, ICD conversion tables, ICD-10 thesaurus of diagnostic terms.
All files are available free of charge via the INTERNET.
Because of poorly compartmentalized paraclavicular soft tissues, total extraperiostal claviculectomy in cases of malignoma with cortical destruction is always marginal.
Due to different muscular compensation in the patients examined, literature disagrees on the biomechanical consequences of claviculectomy for the shoulder girdle.
Thrombolytic therapy of pulmonary embolism with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) has proved to be an established method; but intra- and postoperatively, there is a high risk of bleeding complications.
A 50-year old female with familiar hypophosphatasia and suspected deep venous thrombosis was undergoing osteosynthesis of a femoral fracture.
Intraoperatively, petCO2 suddenly dropped, paCO2 rose, and circulatory arrest occurred.
CPR was started immediately with closed-chest cardiac compression and intravenous application of catecholamines.
While continuing CPR, surgery was stopped, the wound was sealed provisionally, and the patient was transferred to the ICU.
Because of suspected massive pulmonary embolism, thrombolytic therapy with rt-PA in a total dosage of 100 mg was begun.
2.25 hours after the onset of circultory arrest, and 1.5 hours after the beginning of thrombolysis, the patient's hemodynamic patterns under high-dosage catecholamines were satisfactory.
The bleeding after thrombolysis and coagulopathy required massive blood transfusions.
The situation was also complicated by lesions of the liver, spleen and small intestines, which required surgical intervention, and acute renal failure, which had to be treated with transient hemofiltration.
Twenty-eight days after receiving CPR, the patient was discharged from the ICU.
A diagnosis of pulmonary embolism was established by clinical signs, capnometry, blood gas analysis, and electrocardiography.
Due to the requirements of the emergency situation (ongoing CPR), further diagnostic tools were not used.
The patient survived without any neurological deficiency, despite the extended 135-min use of CPR, and despite massive bleeding due to surgical trauma, and to performing CPR in the presence of fibrinolytica.
With the increasing use of cross-sectional echocardiography in patients with overt or suspected pulmonary thromboembolism in the emergency rooms, more and more right atrial thrombi are detected.
These are so-called "transitthrombi" from the venous system on their way to the pulmonary arteries and they are a severe presentation of thromboembolic disease.
They appear as an imminent pulmonary embolism and usually coexists with an already massive embolism.
In patients were a right atrial thrombus is associated with a patent foramen ovale, paradoxical arterial embolism has been observed.
Right sided heart thrombi have a high mortality rate and need immediate treatment.
In our hospital we have seen 14 patients with right atrial thrombi and pulmonary embolism in a period of 6 years.
Three patients had cardiac arrest with a massive pulmonary embolism, seven patients presented with a submassive embolism.
All patients were treated immediately after echocardiographic diagnosis without pulmonary angiography.
In about half of the cases transesophageal echocardiography was done additionally for diagnosis and monitoring.
Therapeutic options were thrombectomy, fibrinolysis or anticoagulants.
We treated one of our patients with thrombectomy, eleven patients with fibrinolysis and two patients with anticoagulants.
The era of modern anaesthesia in Germany began on January 24th, 1847.
This day, professor in ordinary Johann Ferdinand Heyfelder anaesthetized a patient with sulphuric ether in the clinic of surgery and ophthalmology of the University of Erlangen.
By March 17th, 1847, Heyfelder had performed 121 surgical procedures under ether.
The operations in majority were teeth-extractions, and a few more complex operations such as the treatment of a harelip or of lip cancer or the resection of the shoulder joint.
Heyfelder described in detail 108 of these inhalations in a little book entitled The experiments with sulphuric ether.
This monograph published in March, 1847, represents one of the first complete dissertations on sulphuric ether in the German literature.
In a special chapter he analyzed the development of various physiological and psychological parameters during etherization.
Heyfelder also examined blood and urine of some etherized patients and reported that he did not find any important or specific alterations.
In 1847, Heyfelder was probably the first to apply salt-ether in man.
After 4 administrations he concluded that salt ether acted more quickly but shorter than sulphuric ether.
Advantageous were its application without problems and ease of induction.
Disadvantageous were its high volatility, its price and the difficulty of getting it in a pure form.
From December, 1847, on Heyfelder started to use chloroform.
He was now able to perform more major operations, for example the total resection of the hip-joint.
In his book The experiments with sulphuric ether, salt ether, and chloroform he describes a great number of anaesthetic administrations using these 3 agents.
In his summary Heyfelder concluded, that chloroform was undoubtly superior to sulphuric ether mainly because it was a quicker acting and longer lasting agent and leads to deeper narcosis.
Moreover its application was much easier for it needed no special apparatus.
However, because of its great anaesthetic potency, Heyfelder particularly demanded great caution in the application of chloroform.
Explicitely he expected an assistant for chloroformizations, whose only duty was to supervise the inhalations and the patient - a forerunner of the modern specialized anaesthesiologist.
Background: To evaluate the publication rate of abstracts presented during the German Anaesthesia Congress (DAK) in MEDLINE-listed journals in comparison to the publication rate of abstracts presented during the meeting of the European Society of Anaesthesiologists (ESA).
The uniform development of the human embryo, as described by classic human embryology, has been confirmed by sonoembryological studies.
In particular, the embryonic brain is suitable for transvaginal ultrasound examination, because the large "cystic" cavities of the brain can easily be imaged.
Sonoembryology not only describes normal embryonic anatomy and normal relations and proportions of organs, but also the development of structural abnormalities.
Approximately one-third of all congenital anomalies, originate from the central nervous system (CNS).
Based on normal sonoembryology and on recent experiences with early CNS anomalies, we recognize some sonographic signs of an early CNS anomaly: (1) Apparent dysmorphology of the brain or the head; (2) Altered appearance of the cerebral ventricles with disproportion of the brain compartments, where the amount of fluid is either greater or less than normal; (3) In the early fetal period, choroid plexuses that are too small to fill the ventricle from the medial to the lateral wall; (4) Irregular contour of the spine/back; (5) Extra-CNS anomalies.
In the following survey, normal sonoembryology of the CNS is described, and CNS anomalies of the early pregnancy are discussed.
Telomerase is an enzyme that elongates telomeric repeats, the specialized structures at the ends of chromosomes that provide genomic stability and compensate for the physiologic process of telomere shortening.
It has been implicated in cellular senescence, immortalization, and carcinogenesis.
Over 85% of human tumours, and 95% of non-melanocytic skin cancers, show telomerase activity, in contrast to the corresponding normal tissues.
This suggests that telomerase activity may play an important role in carcinogenesis.
Recent evidence shows that telomerase is active not only in embryonal and germ line tissues, but also in some normal tissues.
In the skin, this activity has been traced to the stem-cell-bearing epidermal basal cell layer, possibly reflecting the presence of telomerase-competent stem cells.
These findings require a reconsideration of our interpretation of telomerase activity in tumours of the skin and other tissues.
As a causal relationship linking telomerase activity and cancer has yet not been demonstrated, some caution is warranted.
The established criteria of auditory brainstem responses (ABR) such as JV latency, JI-V interpeak latency and interaural differences of  latency or amplitude have been found to be sensitive for detecting tumors of the cerebellopontine angle if a response is present.
However, the ABR can be absent in cases of acoustic neuromas because of desynchronization, even though pure-one audiometry indicates that responses should be present.
This retrospective study compared the ABR and pure-tone thresholds in 234 cases with cerebellopontine angle tumors and a control group of 181 cases with sensory hearing losses in order to quantify threshold discrepancies.
The average deficit of the objective ABR threshold (DOABRT) to the subjective pure-tone threshold for those frequencies between 1-6 kHz was 3.6 dB for the control group (ABR and pure tone thresholds very close) and 31.2 dB for the tumor group (ABR threshold much higher than the pure-tone threshold).
ABR thresholds 30 dB higher than the high-frequency pure tone thresholds were found in 40.6% of the tumor group and in none of the control group.
Thus, deficits of the ABR threshold >30 dB can be considered to be an additional criterion for detecting retrocochlear disease and increases ABR sensitivity for tumor detection even if responses are absent.
The association of nevus flammeus with mongolian spot, nevus fuscoceruleus, nevus spilus and, with variable frequency, with nevus anemicus has been termed phacomatosis pigmentovascularis, a genodermatosis first described by Ota and co-workers.
Four different combinations have been specified.
Most cases are reported from the Japanese literature.
Phacomatosis pigmentovascularis may constitute an exclusively cutaneous disorder, but overlapping with other syndromes like Klippel-Trenaunay syndrome or Sturge-Weber syndrome is also possible.
We report a 30-year-old woman with nevus flammeus on the back and right arm associated with nevus fuscoceruleus on the back.
ORIF management of unstable trochanteric fractures of type A3 of the A0 classification is difficult because of lateral dislocation of the proximal fractured segments, particularly when only the sliding hip-screw is used for fixation.
A connectable butt-press plate was recently developed in order to prevent this type of dislocation.
We review the results with this fixation technique in 22 elderly patients with an average age of 76 years who presented with highly unstable trochanteric fracture of the A3 type.
Three patients died of diseases unrelated to the trauma or operation before the fractures had healed.
The other 19 were followed prospectively until fracture healing had occurred.
Complaints, leg shortening and changes in the CCD angle were recorded.
Furthermore, the mobility score was determined.
Although the patients were able to bear full weight after the operation, no lateral dislocation of fragments was observed.
Only 1 patient had a varus dislocation of 5  ° until the fracture had consolidated.
This was due to severe osteopenia and subsequent dislocation of the screw within the femoral head.
No pseudarthrosis, osteitis or rotational malalignment was noted.
Five of the surviving patients had a lower mobility score after fracture healing as compared to the status before the fracture was sustained.
On the basis of this review, we recommend the use of this new connectable buttress plate with sliding hip screws because it provides sifficient fixation of highly unstable fractures of type A3.
Superficial leptomeningeal hemosiderosis is a rare disease of the central nervous system.
Chronic bleeding into the subarachnoid space causes deposition of hemosiderin in glial cells and subsequent damage to adjacent brain tissue.
There is a characteristic predilection for the cerebellum and eighth cranial nerve.
Accordingly, among a variety of symptoms, cerebellar ataxia and sensorineural hearing loss progressing to total deafness commonly occur.
To date, the hearing loss has been believed to be purely neural.
We present a case of superficial hemosiderosis in a patient with total deafness who was successfully provided with a cochlear implant.
Audiometry demonstrated total bilateral cochlear hearing losses but with preserved function of the eighth cranial nerve.
These findings make us conclude that in contrast to current opinion, superficial hemosiderosis can initially damage the cochlea alone.
Thus, patients with total deafness due to this disorder may benefit from cochlear implantation.
All patients require careful audiometric assessment, including promontory stimulation.
Intracardiac masses remain a challenge for imaging diagnosis.
Although most lesions are initially detected by echocardiography, additional imaging studies, i.e., magnetic resonance imaging and electron beam computed tomography, are commonly requested.
Features and limitations of these two imaging techniques are illustrated and briefly analyzed.
For the first time, the present study assessed the achievable predictive value of early self-experienced neuropsychological deficits for the fater development of schizophrenia.
Ninety-six patients with DSM-III-R diagnoses mainly of the formerly neurotic or personality disordered field, of whom 81 % had shown such basic disorders at the time of the index examination and therefore were classified as persons at high risk of developing schizophrenia, were re-examined for schizophrenia.
After an average follow-up period of about 8 years, more than half of the re-examined sample had developed a schizophrenic disorder according to DSM-III-R.
The outcome of schizophrenia versus no schizophrenia was predicted correctly in 77 % of cases by the presence or absence of self-experienced disturbances of perception, thought, speech or action.
To date, at least 12 types of primary dystonia can be distinguished on a genetic basis.
A 3-bp deletion in the DYT1 gene causes early onset, generalized torsion dystonia (TD), and mutations in the GTP cyclohydrolase I and the tyrosine hydroxylase genes result in dopa-responsive dystonia (DYT5).
A missense change in the D2 dopamine receptor in one large family (DYT11) has recently been implicated in myoclonus-dystonia.
Furthermore, seven other loci for dystonia genes have been mapped to chromosomal regions, including a locus for a mixed dystonia phenotype (DYT6), one form of focal dystonia (DYT7), three types of paroxysmal dystonia (DYT8-10), X-linked dystonia-parkinsonism (DYT3), and rapid-onset dystonia-parkinsonism (DYT12).
No positive linkage results have yet been obtained for autosomal recessive TD (DYT2) and several other families of different types of dominantly inherited TD (DYT4).
In addition, hereditary secondary dystonia may occur as part of familial diseases of the basal ganglia, metabolic and storage disorders, and various X-linked and other familial neurodegenerative syndromes affecting the basal ganglia.
It may be anticipated that the traditional clinical and etiological classifications of dystonia will increasingly be replaced by a genetic one and that the identification of more dystonia genes may lead to a better understanding of these largely nondegenerative disorders.
In this study we investigated whether, in conjunction with neuroleptics, a psychoeducational and cognitively oriented treatment for schizophrenic outpatients and their key-persons can improve the course of schizophrenic illness within a 2-year follow-up.
This prospective randomized study covered a total of 191 schizophrenic patients (according to DSM-III-R) and comprised a psychoeducational training and cognitive psychotherapy for patients and counseling for their key persons in various combinations.
Patients were examined before, immediately after and 2 years after the end of the intervention.
Patients in the treatment groups reduced their overall psychopathology and their attention deficit.
For patients receiving all three treatment conditions, there was a relevant preventive effect with regard to the rehospitalization rate appearing during the second year of the follow-up.
We conclude that in the mid-term, a combination of psychoeducational and cognitively oriented therapy for patients and their keypersons can improve the course of schizophrenic illness.
Background: Cigarette smoking is common during pregnancy and can expose the developing fetus to transplacental carcinogens, but relatively little information is available on fetal uptake of such compounds.
It was the aim of the present study to analyze the first urine of newborns of mothers who did or did not smoke for metabolites of the tobacco-specific carcinogen 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone (NNK) as well as nicotine and cotinine.
Recently there has been an increase in the prevalent HIV infected population in Germany because of declines in progression to AIDS and death while the number of newly infected patients remains constant.This increases the potential value of both current and new approaches to disease prevention.
Post exposure prophylaxis (PEP), defined as treatment of a person who has been exposed to an HIV infected person by a route through which transmission is possible, is one possible way to decrease the number of new cases.
Economic evaluation can help to answer the question whether PEP should be provided to different exposed populations or whether the resources that would be used for PEP should be used for other HIV prevention or treatment interventions.The value of PEP depends both on the costs and effectiveness of the intervention.
In this paper, we use examples from the literature to demonstrate the cost effectiveness of PEP in different population subgroups, including those occupationally exposed, those exposed through unprotected sex, and those exposed through IV drug use.
The cost-effectiveness of PEP is also compared to literature estimates of the cost-effectiveness of other prevention activities.
The aim of this study was to access the importance of the laparoscopic colorectal resection.
Of 131 patients 80 were operated on laparoscopically.
The conversion rate was 14 % (13/93).
A total of 47 patients suffered from cancer.
Curative resection was performed in 41 patients (87 %).
For comparison, 48 patients who underwent open resection were used.
The complication rate was lower after laparoscopy and no reoperation was performed.
Patients recovered quicker and their first oral food intake and bowel movement were earlier.
Hospital stay was shorter (15.3 vs. 8.1 days), and pain at rest and in motion was significantly reduced.
Equal numbers of mesenteric lymph nodes were retrieved; adequate margins of resection could be obtained and the length of resected bowel did not differ.
No port metastases were observed.
Reduced morbidity, reduced hospital stay, reduced abdominal pain, quicker reconvalescence, and reduced overall health care costs are strong arguments in favor of laparoscopic colectomy.
In the field of traumatology, compartment syndromes of the lower extremity are often seen after fractures and direct injuries, or after ischaemia.
Other causes include over-exertion and non-traumatic causes such as acute rhabdomyolysis, drug-induced myositis and eosinophilic myositis.
This paper describes the clinical and MR course of a compartment syndrome following an ankle sprain.
Each patient has the right of a dedicated pain therapy according to the state of the art.
However an efficient pain therapy is not possible without knowing the cause of pain.
In most posttraumatic pain situations peripheral nociceptors are activated and normal afferences are conducted via an intact nociceptive system.
In contrast, neuropathic pain pain is caused by lesions of the nervous system itself.
Mechanisms of central sensibilization and involvement of the sympathetic nervous system may lead to chronification of such pain conditions.
The therapeutic regime of nociceptive and neuropathic pain is demonstrated by algorithms of treatment modalities.
Apart from classic non-opioid analgesics, co-analgesics and opioids have an important status in chronic pain management as well.
Prescription of these substances has to follow strictly defined standards of pain therapy.
Blockades with local anaesthetics as mono-therapy of chronic pain are obsolete.
In posttraumatic pain, however, a certain number of adjuvant blockades or infiltrations of triggerpoints may be helpful.
The exeptional place of sympathetic blockades are in diagnosis and therapy of sympathetic maintained pain (SMP).
Effects of 94 different psychosocial and psychotherapeutic interventions on well-being in the elderly were meta-analyzed.
Psychological well-being was improved and self-rated depression decreased for about half a standard deviation.
The mean effect size for other-rated depression reached d=1.15.
Whereas age of participants did not correlate with change in self-rated well-being or depression, other-rated depression improved less in older samples.
High effect sizes derived from control-enhancing interventions and behavior therapy.
Sub-analyses showed that individual setting produced higher improvement than group setting.
Higher "therapeutic" qualifications and interventions in nursing homes were associated with higher effect-sizes too.
Implications for planning inteventions in old age are discussed.
The prognosis of laryngeal carcinoma worsens dramatically with the discovery of primary or secondary lymph node metastases.
Thus consistent prophylaxis and therapy of metastases is indispensable.
The standard therapy of manifest cervical lymph node metastases is surgery, if possible using the approach of conservative neck dissection.
In cases of a lymph node stage N3, i.e.
fixated metastases with a diameter greater than 6 cm, individually adapted therapy in necessary because of the extremely poor prognosis.
Objective: The German Ophthalmologic Society is rising to the challenges of the information age by offering comprehensive information resources online.
Human recombinant interleukin 2 (IL-2), alone or in combination with other cytokines, is currently under investigation for the immunotherapy of metastatic tumours.
Objective responses of 20%-35% have been reported in patients with disseminated melanoma and renal cell carcinoma who received high-dose intravenous IL-2 in combination with interferon- (IFN).
However, treatment with IL-2 is complicated by a syndrome of life-threatening adverse reactions such as disseminated vascular leakage, fluid retention, severe hypotension, and (reversible) multiple organ dysfunction (MODS).
A systemic inflammatory reaction (SIRS)/sepsis sepsis-like haemodynamic pattern has been described in patients after IL-2 bolus application alone.
Our purpose was to study the haemodynamic changes in patients treated with high-dose IL-2 administered as a constant infusion and in combination with IFN.
The histopathologic diagnosis of odontogenic cysts is based mainly on the morphological nature of the epithelial lining of cysts and their origin.
We used the international histologic classification set up by the World Health Organisation in 1992.
The aim of this study was to investigate the differentiation of various types of cyst using an immunohistochemical technique rather than by conventional morphological assessment.
About five per cent of the children with congenital diaphragmatic hernia are asymptomatic during parturition and are diagnosed beyond the neonatal period.
We report about particularities of "late-presenters" with congenital diaphragmatic hernias namely funnel chest and a fatal outcome of an associated acute gastric volvulus.
The retrospective results of carbon prostheses for knee ligament reconstruction in 120 patients, as established by questionnaire, are reported at 10  +/-  2 years follow-up.
Eighty patients could also be reviewed clinically.
Some 60 % of the patients showed good subjective function at reduced activity level.
Complications were seen in 72.5 % of the patients with rupture of the carbon prosthesis and in 68 % of those with synovitis.
X-ray showed osteoarthritis in up to 59 % of the patients.
Carbon prostheses for collateral ligament reconstruction (85 % medial, 5.8 % lateral) were successful in 75 % of cases.
Activity and time seem to be less responsible for failure of the carbon prostheses than the features of growing in.
Destruction of the knee joint over time is due to reactive synovitis and catabolic enzyme reaction and correlates with joint effusion and pain.
If these problems appear, (arthroscopic) resection of the synovia is indicated to interrupt the circulus vitiosus.
Background: With resprect to very early screening it has become necessary to apply laboratory techniques more sensitive and more precise than the formerly used Guthrie-test to guarantee correct detection of hyperphenylalaninemias.
Three quantitative methods were compared.
The Viennese Medical School played an important role in the development of radiological examinations and signs of the temporal bone with conventional X-rays.
Famous pioneers include E. G. Mayer (1893-1969) and L. Psenner (1910-1986).
Nowadays conventional X-rays and tomography have lost their important role in diagnostic radiology of the temporal bone, but the basic principles established in those early years of radiology are still used now.
This statement is correct not only for conventional X-rays, but particularly for "poly"-tomography in comparison with CT.
The success of interventional catheter based therapy of coronary artery disease is still limited by a high rate of chronic restenosis.
Using alternative mechanical techniques, there is increasing evidence that restenosis can be prevented in certain subsets of patients by optimized balloon angioplasty, DCA and stenting as well as by the combined approach of primary tissue removal with adjunctive stent implantation.
This article summarizes the mechanical techniques of restenosis prevention or reduction that have been documented in controlled trials.
Additional pharmacologic interventions and possibly genetic and/or radiotherapeutic approaches will be highly important for future reduction of restenosis.
A safe closure of a dura lesion is necessary on account of the risk of potentially fatal (late) meningitis.
161 duraplasties of the frontal skull base carried out from 1979 to 1994 at the ENT-department Fulda were evaluated in a retrospective study in regard to etiology, operative techniques and results.
Duraplasty of the rhinobasis was indicated in 70 cases of rhinobasal trauma, 47 cases after paranasal sinus surgery, 36 cases of tumors and 8 malformations.
After an average follow-up time of 6 years the patients were interviewed for postoperative liquorrhea, sinusitis treated with antibiotics and meningitis.
As an objective measure to verify the tight closure of the treated CSF-leaks a fluoreszein test was performed in 50,9 % 6 to 8 weeks after the operation.
Duraplasty was successfull in more than 96 %.
The approach and technique to perform a duraplasty have to be choosen individually considering size, location and etiology of the dural defect.
In the majority of dural defects in the area of the frontal skull base reconstruction can be carried out now a days via an endonasal approach.
By use of allogenic tissue, a mucosal flap from the surrounding area to cover the graft and fibrin clue good results were obtained.
The tophus is a characteristic and pathognomonic sign of chronic gout.
Before effective drugs were available for the treatment of hyperuricaemia about 50 - 60% of patients with gout developed clinically and radiologically apparent urate crystal deposits.
Clinical cutaneous manifestations of chronic gout are now rarely observed.
However, the presence of degenerative tissues, as in idiopathic osteoarthritis of the fingers, may predispose to the deposition of urate crystals.
We report on a patient with secondary - probably diuretic-induced - hyperuricaemia and gout tophi in Heberden's nodes.
HIV-1-associated encephalopathy (HIVE) remains an important manifestation of advanced HIV infection despite recent progress in antiretroviral therapy.
This is in part due to particular pharmacological and virological characteristics of the central nervous system (CNS).
HIVE is characterized by a "subcortical" dementia with psychomotor slowing as well as memory and concentration deficits.
An invariable finding are deficits of central motor function.
Pathogenetically, an enhanced viral replication in immunocompetent CNS cells is believed to be a requirement.
This leads to neurotoxic effects directly elicited by viral products as well as indirectly by the immune response to virus infection.
HIV-1 myelopathy (HIVM) is the other CNS manifestion of late HIV infection.
The present consensus paper recommends diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in HIVE and HIVM and outlines the current research.
Background: Prognostic data heart failure rely on epidemiological studies or large clinical trials.
These data are not to transfer easily on everyday practice.
Forty-nine patients (mean age, 54 years) admitted for displaced ankle fractures were observed retrospectively to determine by clinical examination and measurement of plantar pressure distribution whether successful surgical treatment of ankle fractures had led to gait symmetry.
The mean follow-up was 36 months (range, 19-54 months).
The deviation in gait was quantified using peak pressure.
Using a clinical score, most of the patients had satisfactory results.
The plantar pressure distribution showed significant load asymmetries of patients with satisfactory results and those with non-satisfactory results.
Dynamic gait analysis allows quantification of gait asymmetry and clinically non-visible gait disorder.
Comparison of radiation exposure applied by different types of CT scanners for the investigation of the chest and abdomen.
Determination of radiation exposure applied by multi-phase spiral CT. Estimation of the dose in air in the system axis of the scanner, the CT dose index (CTDI) and the effective dose for electron beam tomography (EBT) and two conventional CT scanners (sequence, SEQ; spiral, SCT).
For EBT, dose in system axis for investigation of the abdomen was above 50 mGy.
Effective dose for investigation of the chest and abdomen was higher with EBT (11 and 26 mSv, respectively) than with conventional CT (SEQ, 4 and 20 mSv; SCT, 2 and 7 mSv).
The effective dose for a biphasic investigation (liver 5 mSv, kidney 4 mSv) was below, for a triphasic investigation (liver 7 mSv) above the effective dose of the investigastion of the abdomen (6 mSv).
Investigation of the abdomen with the EBT should only be performed for certain indications.
With spiral CT, effective dose is much lower than with EBT.
Bone fracture, soft-tissue trauma and hemorrhagic shock are frequent complications in trauma patients, and these patients are known to be immunocompromised.
Nonetheless, it is difficult to differentiate the effect of soft-tissue trauma plus hemorrhage from that of bone fracture and hemorrhage on host immune function in the clinical setting.
To determine this experimentally, closed bone fracture (right lower leg) and/or soft-tissue trauma (2.5 cm midline laparotomy) were induced prior to hemorrhagic shock (mean arterial BP of 35  +/-  5 mm Hg for 90 min) in male C3H/HeN mice.
All animals were killed at 72 h after initiation of the experiment and the spleens were collected aseptically.
More significant depression of splenocyte IL-2 and IL-3 release occurred with the combined insult than after bony injury or tissue trauma alone with hemorrhage.
The present study suggests that different traumatic insults, i. e. bone fracture as well as soft-tissue trauma in conjunction with hemorrhagic shock, produce comparable depression of host immune function.
Moreover, combination of closed bone fracture and soft-tissue trauma prior to hemorrhagic shock leads to even more compromised immunity.
This indicates that different mechanisms of immune depression may be involved following soft-tissue trauma or bony injury coupled with hemorrhage.
The markedly depressed immune function following bony injury, soft-tissue trauma and hemorrhagic shock may contribute to the increased susceptibility of severely injured patients to sepsis and the ensuing multiple organ failure in the clinical situation.
In the management of acute major vessel occlusion, the use of fibrinolytic agents such as recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA), urokinase or streptokinase is widely accepted.
Today, the spectrum of indications for thrombolytic drugs comprises acute myocardial infarction, lung embolism, ischaemic stroke, deep vein thrombosis and acute arterial occlusions of the lower limbs.
In view of the histopathological and clinical features of retinal vessel occlusion, fibrinolysis aimed at early restoration of blood flow appears to be a promising therapeutic approach.
Basically, it is of some concern that the systemic administration of fibrinolytic agents is associated with a haemorrhagic risk.
Since this includes cerebral haemorrhage or gastrointestinal bleeding, the choice of an appropriate intravenous thrombolytic therapy in a non-life threatening situation such as central retinal artery occlusion (CRAO) or central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) should be based on minimising the risk of adverse events.
Furthermore, the fibrinolytic treatment of choice should be able to produce rapid and complete restoration of retinal capillary and arterial or venous blood flow and maintain patency long enough for retinal salvage to take place.
In this article, we review several studies of fibrinolytic therapy in patients with retinal vessel occlusion to determine whether this treatment is likely to improve major clinical outcomes.
Moreover, we review the large scale trials of fibrinolysis in myocardial infarction and acute ischaemic stroke to evaluate safety and efficacy of various thrombolytic regimens.
Furthermore, we report on our results of fibrinolytic therapy with low dose rt-PA in patients with retinal artery occlusion and ischaemic central retinal vein occlusion.
In light of the fact that the occurrence of bleeding complications constitutes a dose dependent problem, we conclude that the use of low dose regimens should be the ideal approach to fibrinolysis in retinal vessel occlusion.
Although the results of our pilot studies must be interpreted with caution, we believe that the administration of low-dose rt-PA (50 mg) in a frontloaded manner ( = simultaneous administration of rt-PA and intravenous heparin) constitutes a reasonable treatment option in patients with central retinal artery occlusion (CRAO) or ischaemic retinal vein occlusion (RVO), recent onset of symptoms (CRAO <= 12 h, RVO <= 11 d) and severe visual loss ( <= 20/50).
Because of these limitations and the numerous contraindications of fibrinolytic therapy, only a limited number of patients will be suitable for this treatment.
In view of the poor visual and ocular prognosis in severe retinal vessel occlusion, controlled clinical trials are needed to determine the benefit of thrombolysis in the management of this disease.
This study was designed to determine the relationship between the electroencephalogram (EEG) and clinical signs of depth of anaesthesia during induction of anaesthesia by slow infusion of propofol (18 mg/kg - h).
The object of this study was to evaluate currently published data regarding extragenital neoplasia induced by HRT.
Objective: This study was designed to investigate the differences between TIVA with propofol/remifentanil (P/R) and balanced anaesthesia with sevoflurane/fentanyl (S/F) in gynaecological laparoscopic surgery.
Emphasis was put on haemodynamic reaction, recovery profile, postoperative side effects and patient satisfaction.
Confluent and reticulated papillomatosis (CRP) is a rare dermatosis of unknown aetiology.
Recent electron microscopic studies suggest that CRP is a disorder of keratinisation.
In our case we could not confirm the previously reported ultrastructural findings.
CRP is generally resistant to therapy.
We treated a 19-year-old patient with typical CRP with oral minocycline.
Within a few weeks the eruption resolved completely.
A mild relapse 7 months later responded promptly to a repeated course of minocycline.
Twelve months after discontinuatin of therapy there is no evidence of recurrence.
In CRP minocycline should be preferred to systemic retinoid therapy because of its minor side effects.
Wound instillation seems to be an easy and preferable way to achieve postoperative analgesia in pediatric hernioplasty.
This prospective, randomized and double-blinded pilot-study was initiated to gain preliminary information in order to define the appropriate concentration of local anaesthetic for efficient posthernioplastic analgesia.
The recommended infusion time for i.v.
prostaglandin E 1 (PGE1) therapy is 2 or 3 h, depending on the dose.
The aim of the present multicentre study was to investigate, for the first time, whether the dose of 60 µg PGE1 is effective and well tolerated with shorter infusion times.
A total of 118 patients with intermittent claudication and a pain-free walking distance between 50 and 200 m (3 km/h, 12%) were randomized to receive an i.v.
infusion of 3 ampoules Prostavasin (60 µg PGE1) administered for either 1 or 2 h, once a day for 4 weeks.
Primary variables were pain-free walking distance as well as safety, determined by the frequency of adverse events and the course of blood pressure.
The efficacy was comparable in the two groups.
In the 1-h infusion group, the pain-free walking distance increased from 87 to 135 m, and in the 2-h group from 88 to 147 m, while the absolute walking distance increased from 124 to 200 m and from 147 to 238 m, respectively.
The differences between the two groups were not significant, although an analysis of subgroups with initial pain-free walking distances of less than 80 m indicated a significant difference in favour of the 2-h PGE1 infusion (increase in walking distance 58 m as compared with 22 m).
Course of blood pressure and frequency of adverse events were comparable in the two groups.
Altogether, in intermittent claudication both the 1-h and the 2-h PGE1 infusion show comparably good results in terms of efficacy and safety.
Patients with an initial pain-free walking distance of less than 80 m seem to reveal a major benefit after a 2-h PGE1 infusion.
The problem in the treatment of deep hyalin cartilage defects is due to the minimal regeneration potential of this specific tissue.
Several attempts were made to solve this difficulties experimentally and clinically.
The proliferative potential of autogenous perichondrium/periost is well-known for decades.
Gender identity change in intersexual patients is rare.
We report on the transsexual development of a patient with male pseudohermaphroditism.
The case report emphasizes the importance of a thorough differential diagnosis.
Fractionated irradiation with X-rays or megavoltage is an important therapeutic option in the palliative treatment of Kaposi's sarcoma.
We report on three HIV patients demonstrating bullous cutaneous eruptions in the irradiation field.
Three homosexual men (age 45-60 y) stage of disease CDC 3C, were treated with fractionated soft X-rays with the scheme conventionally used by us (total dose 30 Gy, single doses 3 Gy).
Immediately to three days after completion of treatment large blisters appeared within the irradiation field, resolving after 2-4 weeks, leaving postinflammatory hyperpigmentation.
The cause of this rare reaction to soft X-ray therapy, potentially suggesting an individually altered radiation sensitivity, is so far unknown.
Controlled prospective studies applying different fractionation schemes will be necessary to better elucidate this issue.
Due to the decreased trauma in anterior as well as posterior surgical approaches to the spine, microsurgical techniques have been used more frequently in recent years.
This article describes two new microsurgical techniques to approach the anterior lumbar spine for interbody fusion as part of a posterior-anterior stabilization concept in various diseases like spondylolisthesis, degenerative instability; failed back surgery syndrome, fractures etc.
The lumbar segments L 2-5 are approached through a blunt muscle-splitting retroperitoneal technique.
The antero-lateral circumference of the motion segment is exposed with a frame-type retractor which is anchored in the adjacent vertebral bodies with anchoring screws.
The lumbosacral junction is exposed via a mini-laparotomy using a special soft tissue spreader.
Interbody fusion is described with autogeneous bone grafts.
Preliminary experience with 83 patients treated between 1995 and 1996 show that peri- and postoperative morbidity is low.
Clinical as well as radiological results are comparable to the standard techniques.
Spectrum as well as rate of complications so far do not differ from those described in the literature for non-microsurgical approaches.
The posterior cruciate ligament (PCL) is the strongest ligament of the human knee joint.
Its origin is at the lateral wall of the medial femoral condyle and the insertion is located in the posterior part of the intercondylar area.
The posterior cruciate ligament consists of multiple small fiber bundles.
From a functional point of view, one can differentiate fiber bundles with an anterior origin and fiber bundles with a posterior origin at the femur.
The anterior fibers insert in the anterolateral part of the tibial insertion zone.
These fibers become tense when the knee is flexed.
The posterior fibers insert in the posteromedial part of the tibial insertion and become tense when the knee is extended.
The main part of the posterior cruciate ligament consists of type I collagen positive dense connective tissue.
The longitudinal fibrils of type I collagen are divided into small bundles by thin type III collagen positive fibrils.
In the center of the middle third region, the structure of the tissue varies from the typical structure of a ligament.
In this region, the structure of the tissue resembles fibrocartilage.
Oval-shaped cells surrounded by a metachromatic extracellular matrix lie between the longitudinal collagen fibrils.
The femoral origin and the tibial insertion have the structure of chondral apophyseal enthesis.
Near the anchoring region at the femur and tibia there should be various mechanoreceptors which might have an important function for the kinematics of the knee joint.
The blood supply of the PCL arises from the middle geniculate artery.
The ligament is covered by a synovial fold where the terminal branches of the middle and the inferior geniculate artery form a periligamentous network.
From the synovial sheath, the blood vessels penetrate the ligament in a transverse direction and anastomose with a longitudinally orientated intraligamentous network.
The distribution of blood vessels within the PCL is not homogeneous.
We detected three avascular areas within the ligament: Both fibrocartilaginous entheses of the PCL are devoid of blood vessels.
A third avascular zone is located in the central zone of fibrocartilage of the middle third region.
Atrial reentrant tachycardias (ART) are a potentially life-threatening complication in survivors of congenital heart disease surgery.
From July 1993 to December 1997, temporary transesophageal pacing was used to convert 29 tachycardia episodes in 19 patients.
At the time of the first tachycardia episode, patients' ages were 1 month to 26 years (mean 9.8 yrs).
Time from operation to onset of first tachycardia episode ranged from 1 day to 19 years.
Onset was within the first 2 weeks postoperatively in 6 patients and occurred later in 13 patients (1 to 19 years after operation).
Postoperative pacemaker implantation had been performed in 2 pts; 17 of 19 pts were receiving antiarrhythmic medication.
After placing a quadripolar transesophageal catheter, atrial and ventricular signals were recorded and atrial stimulation performed.
Atrial cycle length of tachycardia ranged from 160-380 ms with 1:1 to 4:1 AV conduction.
Temporary transesophageal pacing was performed following an algorithm starting with 4 extrastimuli (20 ms below atrial cycle length of tachycardia).
Tachycardia terminated in 27 of 29 cases (93%) without complications.
In 3 cases, conversion was achieved by pacing after amiodarone 5 mg/kg i.v.
After tachycardia conversion, sinus- or pacemaker rhythm was present in 20 cases.
In 9 cases atrial fibrillation was recorded; spontaneous conversion to sinus rhythm occurred after a maximum of 3 min (7 cases) or persisted and required direct current cardioversion (2 cases).
In conclusion, transesophageal atrial pacing is an effective, relatively noninvasive method for conversion of atrial reentrant tachycardias after operation for congenital heart disease.
After elucidating the components and theory of neuroticism (N) as well as of psychosomatic complaints and their relationships to personality dimensions and to psychosomatic diseases, comparisons are performed between patients suffering from fibromyalgia syndrome (FMS) or related pain diseases with healthy subjects scoring high on personality dimensions related to neuroticism.
FMS and pain patients score high on depression, anxiety, and experience of stress although questionnaire scores on depression are higher in subjects not exhibiting somatic features of the disease.
High subjective pain sensitivity and low thresholds for pain perception are also common features in high N subjects and FMS patients.
On the endocrinological level cortisol responses to challenge tests with CRH as well as prolactin responses to TRH are higher in FMS patients than in high N healthy subjects indicating an endocrinological difference.
A common feature, however, is the lack of adapatability in the two groups, since neurotics are in particular characterized by a low capacity to shift their behavior from one state to the other (waking-sleeping, working-relaxing), to re-adapt to baseline levels after endocrinological or physiological stress responses, or to adjust to conditions of shift work.
This is reflected by chronobiological disturbances in FMS patients and could also explain their maintainance of pain perception, because they are incapable of correcting conditioned pain-producing muscle tension.
Purpose: To document our experience with spiral hydro-CT of the pancreas based on a combination of pharmacologic intestinal paralysis and water distension of the stomach and duodenum with specific reference to tumor detection rate, differentiation of malignant versus benign tumors and assessment of tumor resectability in a prospective study on 211 consecutive patients.
Since the publication of a case of Syphilis transmission by blood transfusion in 1915 the discussion about transfusion-associated bacterial infection is ongoing.
For some time, virus infections through blood and blood products have been highlighted.
However, in the last years the attention required has been drawn to the problem of transmission of bacteria.
In this publication the present situation concerning the contamination rates through blood components and the frequency of transfusion-associated microbial infections is outlined.
The bacteria involved are discussed.
Furthermore, the state of the art for prevention and diagnosis as well as the methods for inactivation of bacteria are assessed.
While working to develop a distal locking device, we analyzed distal nail position with reference to nail deformation and a radiographic-morphometric investigation.
The amount and the direction of implant deformation in unslotted stainless steel unreamed tibial nails (Synthes) were analyzed.
Measurement of implant deformation (3 translations, 3 angles) in the center of the distal transverse locking hole was performed with a 3D magnetic motion tracker system before and after nail insertion.
Unreamed tibial nails (diameter 8 mm, n = 10; diameter 9 mm, n = 10) were inserted in paired human cadaver tibiae.
The results showed lateral translations of -4.5+/-3.5 mm (mean and standard deviation, range 14.3 mm) and dorsal translations of -7.8+/-5.8 mm (mean and standard deviation, range 19.2 mm).
Rotational deformations around the longitudinal axis of the nail were 0.3+/-0.7 ° (mean and standard deviation, range 2.4 °).
The results showed, that a simple aiming arm, mounted on the proximal nail end, alone or even in combination with a large working channel (e.g.
10 mm in diameter), was not adequate to the aiming process.
A radiographic-morphometric analysis was subsequently performed in 40 tibiae after experimental (n = 20) or clinical (n = 20) implantation of nails 8 mm and 9 mm in diameter.
These measurements showed a relatively constant distance between the upper distal transverse hole and the anterior aspect of the tibia (average 12.3 mm and only a narrow range (7.6 mm).
These data were the basis for the development of an aiming technique that exploits the relatively constant distance between the distal nail hole and the anterior aspect of the tibia.
The goal of the Interdisciplinary Longitudinal Study of Aging (ILSE) is to assess healthy and satisfying aging in middle adulthood and later life.
In addition, this study compares adults from eastern and western Germany.
The data for this study were collected between late 1993 and early 1996 as part of the first measurement point of the ILSE.
Five-hundred and one participants from the Leipzig region were compared with 500 participants from the Heidelberg area on four specific dimensions: personality, cognitive functioning, subjective well-being, and health.
Age differences were obtained for neuroticism, extraversion, openness, and agreeableness.
Differences were also obtained in cognitive functioning and health.
Regional differences between eastern and western Germany were obtained in the personality dimensions neuroticism, openness and conscientiousness, as well as in subjective well-being.
Significant age by region interactions were obtained for openness and some of the cognitive measures, as well as for the physicians' health ratings of the participants, suggesting selective historical effects.
The results are discussed with respect to functional abilities and levels of satisfaction in midlife, as well as with respect to regional differences that might be due to prior political system differences in the east and west.
Modern obstetrics must try to maintain high safety standards for both mother and child and, at the same time, satisfy the general desire of women for natural birth.
Standards of safety are based on early recognition of high risks, allowing early intervention to prevent serious complications.
A considerable number of diagnostic and therapeutic measures recommended on a prophylactic basis and therefore widely used are responsible for the medical-technical image associated with modern obstetrics.
The benefits of most of these prophylactically recommended activities are unproven or low relative to the unavoidable side effects and the costs associated with widespread application.
There is good scientific proof that routine application of fetal heart rate monitoring during labor and delivery is associated with an increase in the rate of cesarean sections as well as operative vaginal deliveries without any clear benefit to the newborn in terms of a decrease in mortality or morbidity.
In a population of healthy women with uncomplicated pregnancies, the prevalence of perinatal mortality or morbidity is so low that even with meta-analysis of several studies the numbers remain too small to show significant differences for these rare events.
In high-risk cases the routine application of fetal heart rate monitoring throughout labor and delivery is undisputed and leads to a significant drop in morbiditiy and mortality of the baby.
With careful selection of pregnant women a combination of electronic fetal heart rate monitoring and auscultation during certain segments of the first stage of labor provides adequate surveillance.
We report the history of a 38 year old patient who began to develop mental deterioration at the age of 26.
After a time of 7 years neurological signs like writing dystonia occured.
Hallervorden-Spatz-Desease (HSD) was diagnosed at the age of 36 in vivo with the clinical presentation of severe dystonia, rigidity, dementia, and typical signal loss in the globus-pallidus the reticular part of the substantia nigra, and the nucleus ruber in the T-2 weighted MRI.
The "eye-of-the-tiger"-sign, a bilateral hyperintensity in the rostral globus pallidus, was not observed in follow-up examinations.
HSD is a rare autosomal-recessive or sporadic disease of unknown etiology.
In one third of the patients a dementing process is the first clinical sign of the disorder, and is a rare differential diagnosis of early onset dementia.
In 33 patients with chronic venous incompetence (CVI) caused by primary varicoses or postthrombotic syndrome stage I-III (according to Widmer) the therapeutic benefit of 6 months of medically supervised physical exercise training was documented.
During the training penud there was an improvement in subjective complains such as pain and tendency for edema in the legs.
Mobility in the upper ankle joint was improved asuss as venous drainage function.
Clinical benefit was achieved in the reduction of ulcer size; 7 of 10 ulcers completely healed.
Medically supervised physical exercise training and optimized compression therapy are basic therapeutic approaches in conservative treatment in chronic venous insufficiency.
Costs are covered by the patient's health insurance company in Germany, as long as the exercise training is medically supervised.
Epileptic seizures may alter autonomic functions.
This is especially the case with complex focal seizures (of temporal lobe origin) and grand mal.
Most frequently, such seizures cause ictal tachycardia, sometimes tachypnea, probably caused by the propagation of epileptic discharges to autonomic cerebral structures.
Ictal bradycardia and asystole are rare phenomena.
However, they may be life threatening.
Their differentiation from primary cardiac arrest is possible by the use of ictal EEG and ECG registration.
Postictal serum prolactin measurement does not differentiate syncope from seizure.
However, a postictal increase of creatine kinase is only measured after epileptic seizures and not after syncope.
Treatment of such epileptic seizures includes an optimization of anticonvulsant drug therapy and the implantation of a cardiac demand stimulator.
There is growing evidence that ictal asystole is a cofactor in sudden unexplained death in epileptic patients.
A minimal documentation system (MIDOS) has been developed for self-assessment of pain and other symptoms by the patients on palliative care units.
To decrease the administrative burden and thereby increase the acceptance of the system an electronic database was developed to facilitate data entry and documentation.
Background: Hearing loss can be found in more than 50% of children with Down syndrome.
Chronic or recurrent middle-ear effusions are considered the most frequent etiology with an incidence of 60%.
Microcystic adnexal carcinoma is a rare semimalignant cutaneous neoplasm characterised by slow but locally aggressive growth.
Its histogenesis and nomenclature are still a subject of controversy.
Under-recognition and the tumour's bland cytologic features lead to frequent misdiagnoses.
In addition, subclinical tumour invasion explains the high incidence of local recurrence.
Thus, the tumour makes great demands on the planning of its surgical removal.
We report the case of an 81-year-old woman with a microcystic adnexal carcinoma of the lower lip, which was treated by micrographic surgery.
On the basis of this case, differential diagnoses, histogenesis and micrographic surgery as the treatment of choice are discussed.
In old age, individualization processes also simultaneously effect the opportunity and necessity to shape one's life.
Societal orientation dissipates, and the certainties of earlier times disappear.
Plurality and option appear as an increasing twofold challenge to coping with life.
These ambiguities characterize modern old age.
Or in other words: the biographization of old age has begun.
Posttraumatic cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is associated with a poor outcome.
When evaluating the literature according to the Utstein method, there were only 2 survivors (0.18%) out of 1,135 CPR attempts after trauma (Table 1).
Differences in the study populations and levels of prehospital trauma care led us to analyse the results of a physician-staffed prehospital trauma care system in Cologne.
From January 1987 to December 1990, a total of 49,054 emergency calls were registered using a standardised protocol.
Among 9,595 trauma-related calls, 636 patients were found to be pulseless on arrival of the emergency team, 412 of these were pronounced dead.
CPR was initiated in the remaining 224 patients, who comprise the study population (defined as 100%).
All patients who were admitted to a hospital were followed using a second protocol.
CPR in the field was successful in 68 (30.4%) patients, who were then admitted to a hospital; 42 of these died within the first 24 h. Four patients (1.8%) could be discharged from hospital alive and were still living 1 year later, 1 with a lasting neurological deficit (Fig.
In 156 (69.6%) cases resuscitative attempts were unsuccessful in the field.
Even in a physician-staffed prehospital trauma care system, the chance of surviving a post-traumatic cardiac arrest is minimal.
Survival has to be regarded as an individual fate; the overall results are discouraging.
Even though this study analyses the largest population of posttraumatic CPR ever published, prognostic factors could not be identified due to the few survivors.
Nevertheless, the result does not justify general omission of CPR after trauma as: (1) prognostic factors for survival have not been identified thus far; and (2) no significant additional costs arise from posttraumatic CPR.
Functional voiding disturbances can be due to failure of the detrusor or to discoordinated sphincter function during micturition.
Therapeutical options are directed either to strengthening the contraction up to an adequate magnitude or to lowering the voiding resistance or can be aimed at influencing both.
In a brief survey mechanical, pedagogical, electrotherapeutical, and surgical measures as well as drug treatment are critically examined.
Conservative methods should always be attempted before surgical procedures are performed.
Depending on the degree of severity and the etiology of the disease, a combined therapy can be useful.
In the case of resistance to therapy, intermittent autocatheterism is to be preferred to permanent deviation via an indwelling catheter.
During long-term therapy of hyperuricaemia with allopurinol (300 mg/d) two patients developed generalized granuloma annulare.
The diagnoses were confirmed by histology; concomitant diseases, especially diabetes mellitus, were not detectable.
Following discontinuation of allopurinol therapy, cutaneous granulomas healed without relapse.
Hyperuricaemia could be controlled by low-purine diet and medication avoiding allopurinol.
The clinical history of our two patients suggested a causal connection between allopurinol therapy and generalized granuloma annulare.
For this reason we rate the development of this disease in both cases as a rare but significant side effect of allopurinol.
This should give rise to critical assessment of concomitant drug therapy during development of generalized granuloma annulare.
Background: Aim of the present prospective longitudinal study was the statistical foundation and thus further replication of recent findings of Hasenbring [13], who postulated a significant importance of specific, within the psychological pain research long neglected pain coping strategies as risk factors concerning pain chronification: appeals to "stick it out" on the cognitive level and endurance strategies on the behavioural level.
Intraarticular bleeding and muscle bleeding occur spontaneously or as a result of trauma in hemophilia A or B.
The most common sites for hemarthrosis are the knees joints, elbows and ankles joints.
Resorption of intraarticular blood induces reactive hemophilic synovitis.
Hyperplasia of the synovium can be followed by recurrent bleedings.
These early reactions can change to a chronic synovitis and cause cartilage damage, finally resulting in a complete destruction of the joint.
Since 1981 158 adults and 61 children with a hemophilia A or B were treated at the Center for hemophilic disorders Frankfurt in an interdisciplinary approach.
Consequent prophylactic treatment with factor substitution can prevent the incidence of severe hemarthrosis.
Minor joint bleedings are treated by adequate factor substitution, temporarily non-weight bearing of the extremity, application of ice-packs and physical therapy.
More severe joint hemorrhages should be aspirated in order to reduce the acute synovitis.
This is followed by a consequent physical therapy (joint and soft tissue techniques) and anti-inflammatory drugs.
The goal is a sufficient muscular balance of the joint, the improvement of the coordination, and the proprioception.
The chronic synovitis is less painful and poorly responses to conservative interventions.
Local ice application, sytemic and local anti-inflammatory treatment support the physical therapy.
Soft heel shock absorber, elastic and semi-rigid bandages prevent recurrent bleeding episodes by shock absorption and decrease of synovial impingement.
Synovectomy is indicated in cases of chronic persistent synovitis.
Radiosynoviorthesis (RSO), which is an alternative in certain cases, has been performed with great success in 12 cases in our hospital.
In advanced arthropathy joint mobilization should be the emphasis of the physical therapy.
Bandages, crutches and ortopaedic shoe devices improve the walking capacity.
Over an 18-month period findings of stress X-ray of the ankle and medical records of 112 cases were analyzed retrospectively as to indications, results and therapeutic consequences.
The analysis showed that critical setting of indications can reduce the frequency of stress X-ray of the ankle and thus lower the total costs.
The introduction of guidelines could be advantageous at medical training institutions.
A 72-year-old patient received 0.1 mg morphine by the intrathecal route and 2x1.5 mg midazolam as adjuvant therapy.
Severe respiratory depression and somnolence supervened 3.5 h later, which lasted over the next 24 h and necessitated intubation and mechanical ventilation.
Continuous administration of >6 mg naloxone to antagonize the supposed effect of the morphine had no effect.
The patient's condition was not normalized until a single dose of 0.3 mg flumazenil was administered.
For the time being, especially in the case of elderly patients, we recommend that strict indications are adhered to when intrathecal administration of morphine is considered and that less than 0.1 mg morphine is given.
Respiration should be monitored for quite some time.
In contrast to the often debated NYHA classification, the determination of peak oxygen uptake (peak VO2) by cardiopulmonary exercise testing allows an objective assessment of the exercise capacity of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).
However, cardiopulmonary exercise testing is a time consuming and costly diagnostic tool, which requires sophisticated equipment and specially trained personell.
Exercise capacity can also be determined by the 6 minute walk test.
This test simply measures the distance covered by strong walking on a hallway level within 6 minutes.
The 6 minute walk test is a submaximal exercise test, which is associated with much smaller increments in heart rate, blood pressure and plasma catecholamines than cardiopulmonary exercise testing.
It is characterized by a very small intraindividual variance.
Furthermore, it can be easily performed and, due to low logistic and personal requirements, it is very cost effective.
The results of the 6 minute walk test - as well as of cardiopulmonary exercise testing - are influenced by extracardial exercise-limiting disorders, such as pulmonary diseases.
Independent from the etiology of CHF, the results of the 6 minute walk test are closely related to peak VO2.
In serial exercise testing the distance covered within 6 minutes allow to predict the individual peak VO2.
Like peak VO2 the 6 minute walk test has been shown to be a predictor of morbidity and mortality in CHF, with its predictive value being independent from left ventricular ejection fraction and other potential prognostic parameters.
In CHF patients a walking distance < 300 m is associated with a one-year-mortality of up to 50%, whereas the one-year-mortality in patients reaching a walking distance > 450 m amounts to only a few percent.
In addition, the hospitalization rate of patients reaching a walking distance of < 300 m is several fold higher than in those with a walking distance >= 450 m. Like cardiopulmonary exercise testing, the 6 minute walk test allows to control the efficiency of specific treatments and to monitor the natural course of the disease.
The 6 minute walk test is, thus, a cost effective alternative to cardiopulmonary exercise testing in CHF patients.
However, neither the 6 minute walk test alone nor the results of cardiopulmonary exercise testing alone are sufficient for selecting patients, e.g., for cardiac transplantation, as each individual case requires a synopsis of all relevant facts and parameters.
We report the first case of prurigo pigmentosa in the German literature.
For over a year, a 16-year old white girl developed an immensely pruritic symmetrical reticular, papulo-vesicular eruption on the trunk, axillae and pubic region.
Histologically a superficial  perivascular spongiotic and lichenoid  inflammatory pattern with prominent pigmentary incontinence in older lesions was observed.
Topical corticosteroids and  systemic antihistamines had no effect.
Systemic corticosteroids and diaminophenylsulphone (DADPS) produced improvement but could not prevent recurrences.
Healing  occurred only after 4 weeks of systemic- minocycline.
Following parenteral administration, clonidine has analgesic effects at both cerebral and spinal levels.
Patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) makes it possible to determine equipotent dosages of analgesics by relating analgesic consumption per time to the levels of analgesia obtained in comparable patient populations.
Therefore, we studied the equipotency ratios of clonidine and piritramide and the incidence of undesired side effects in the treatment of postoperative pain in patients undergoing maxillo-facial surgery.
The effects of glycerol are discussed in detail.
Glycerol can lead to a transition of crystalline lipid structures within the horny layer lipids into liquid crystalline states.
Especially if applied in oil/water-emulsions it improves, the hydration of the horny layers better than urea.
In addition, if facilitates the dissolution of desmosomes within the superior layers of the horny layer enhancing desquamation.
Furthermore, by using glycerol, the mechanical properties of the skin can be influenced; long term used leads to increased elasticity.
The roughness of the horny layer is reduced, which can be explained by the abrasive and/or the hydrating effect.
Glycerol used in o/w-emulsions also protects against the influence of tensides or noxious lipophilic agents.
Presumably a flux from the base of the epidermis towards its surface triggers the regeneration of the barrier.
Finally,  glycerol can lead - similarly to urea - to an improvement in active agent penetration, as has been proven for hexylnicotinate.
Background: An 18-year-old woman presented with thyrotoxic symptoms - right sided lid retraction and exophthalmus.
She complained of diplopia on lateral gaze.
Laboratory investigations confirmed Grave's disease with hyperthyroidism and TSH receptor antibodies.
Atrial tachyarrhythmias significantly reduce quality of life in a surprisingly large number of patients.
The safe and effective treatment of atrial tachyarrhythmias is being intensively studied.
Internal electrical cardioversion of atrial fibrillation has been shown to be an effective non-pharmacological treatment option.
Cardioversion therapy has been applied in the absence of a clear understanding of the mechanisms governing the process.
Recent measurements of atrial transmembrane potentials using sophisticated optical mapping techniques reveal that internal cardioversion shocks cause changes in repolarization time that favor annihilation of wave fronts.
Thus, mechanisms of atrial cardioversion appear to be similar to ventricular defibrillation.
Further studies are needed to determine whether cardioversion mechanisms differ for chronic atrial fibrillation compared to acute atrial fibrillation.
Plasmocytic non-Hodgkin's lymphoma is the most common tumor of bone and bone marrow, typically diagnosed by symptoms such as monoclonal paraproteinemia, proteinuria, anemia and hypercalcemia.
In its progress, deposits of amyloids in  almost all organs can be observed.
However, plasmacytomas which are diagnosed by macroglossia of primarily unknown etiology are rare.
This case report presents a 61-year-old woman who suffered from a persistent swelling of the tongue with painful ulcerations.
A biopsy led to the diagnosis of primary systemic amyloidosis of the light-chain type, which subsequently proved to be a plasmacytoma with lambda light-chains stage II after Durie and Salmon.
In the course of the disease the patient developed further deposits of amyloids in the whole gastro-enteric system.
Macroglossia as a primary manifestation of plasmacytoma is rarely described in medical literature.
However, reports on deposits of amyloid in the tongue in advanced stages of disease are well known.
Aim: Improved detection of pulmonary-venous pathologies by imaging the pulmonary veins without arterial overlay.
For the histological verification of suspicious non-palpable small breast tumors, the three-dimensional breast biopsy applied as cylindrical extirpation using the ABBI system is the optimal solution at present.
Because of the possibility of performing mammography during the operation, errors of localization can be corrected and incorrect incisions avoided.
Taking the three radiomorphologically leading symptoms into consideration - suspicious microcalcification, focal shadow and structural irregularity - it can be stated that the digital mammography of the ABBI system is more sensitive than the conventional one for detecting microcalcification, but focal shadow and structural irregularity are detected less well by digital technique.
These structures should be preoperatively marked by using sonography.
After the complete removal of suspicious microcalcification checked by digital mammography during the operation, residual tumor might be found in a second excision when histologically invasive or intraductal tumor terminations reach the excision margin (R1 resection).
Thirteen invasive and 8 intraductal carcinomas were found in 80 cases of cylindrical extirpation using the ABBI system.
In 7 procedures carried out to exclude an in-breast recurrence, 3 intraductal carcinomas and 1 invasive carcinoma were observed.
In 8 of 12 invasive carcinomas and in 1 of 5 intraductal carcinomas, breast-conserving therapy was indicated.
Two cases of invasive carcinoma fulfilled the criteria applied (minimal tumor-free margin > 2 mm, no extensive intraductal component) to use the ABBI cylinder as lumpectomy without a second excision to follow.
With the increasing number of patients surviving after therapeutic intervention for congenital heart disease (CHD), accurate and frequent follow-up of their morphologic and functional cardiovascular status is required, preferably with a noninvasive imaging technique.
In a retrospecitve multicenter study we followed-up 30 fractures of the neck of the femur in children aged 11 years (1.5-15 years) for 4.8 years (0.5-20.0 years).
It is the aim of this study to analyse factors possibly related to outcome, like age at injury, type of fracture, interval between injury and treatment, method of stabilization and postoperative interval until full weight bearing.
At follow-up subjective parameters (pain, weather sensitiveness), clinical parameters (range of motion, claudication, leg length discrepancies) and radiological parameters (hip series) were investigated and medical charts and roentgenograms were reviewed using a standardized protocol.
29 of 30 children (96.7 %) have sustained displaced fractures.
Non-operative treatment has been applied in 4 children.
26 femoral neck fractures (type I: 1, type II: 8, type III: 17) were stabilized by internal fixation using screws and/or pins.
Following non-operative treatment one child suffered a coxa vara and another child suffered a avascular femoral head necrosis in combination with coxa vara and leg length shortening of 4 cm.
Following operative treatment 9 of 26 children (34.6 %) sufferred a avascular femoral head necrosis and 3 children (11.5 %) suffered a coxa vara.
In 6 of 26 children (23 %) we observed leg length discrepancies > 2 cm.
We were not able to demonstrate any significant follow-up result differencies between the groups of children who have sustained type II or type III fractures, or between the groups of children aged < 10 years when compared to children aged > 10 years, or between the group of children who were operated on within 6 hours after the accident when compared to the group of children operated > 6 hours after the accident.
We observed no significant follow-up result differences between the groups of children who had different intervals between operation and full weight bearing.
Operative fracture management remains the treatment of choice in the majority of displaced femoral neck fractures in children.
However, in our limited study we were not able to demonstrate any significant follow-up result differences between the group of children treated by immediate open reduction and internal fixation (interval injury - operation < 6 hours) when compared to children who had been operated > 6 hours after the injury.
Evidence based standards for structure quality in out-patient management of chronic pain states do not exist.
Therefore we tried to evaluate if german standards for outpatient management of chronic pain states which are based on opinions of experts for pain management influence the outcome quality of independent physicians for treatment of chronic low back pain.
Objective: The aim of this study was to compare low dose dopamine and dopexamine with respect to of liver-venous oxygen saturation, oxygen delivery and - demand, liver function tests and cardiocirculatory effects  in the reperfusion period during a hemihepatectomy operation with occlusion of the liver hilus.
Facial trauma is frequent and mainly caused by motor vehicle accidents.
Due to this main etiologic factor, trauma to the facial skeleton is often associated with serious injuries, commonly involving the brain, chest or abdomen.
As a consequence, the initial clinical management of these patients includes control of hemorrhage and immediate assessment of life-threatening injuries, including the maintenance of the airways.
Patients presenting with facial trauma are initially evaluated with a systematic clinical examination because many fractures can be accurately diagnosed by inspection and palpation alone.
In these cases plain film radiographs serve only for confirmation and documentation of the diagnosis.
In many other cases accompanying and extensive soft tissue swelling may clinically obscure fractures.
A complete and accurate evaluation of these patients requires additional radiological imaging methods.
A series of plain films may be generally sufficient but in most of the cases they can be regarded as initial screening methods for more thorough diagnosis with computed tomography (CT).
In trauma patients CT is the imaging method of choice because it shows more fracture lines and displaced fragments than any other imaging modality.
CT delineates soft tissue and bony structures and can localize and even characterize foreign bodies.
A complete and accurate characterization of the fracture type and potentially associated complications is mandatory for the appropriate treatment and can only be achieved by careful radiological (CT) evaluation.
On the basis of the claims data of the statutory health insurance funds, surgery rates and small-area variations within the catchment area of the AOK Magdeburg were examined for the year 1997.
Substantial variation can be constantly seen.
The extremal quotient at the 30 most frequent ICPM groups ranged from 2 to 5.
Generally, the extent of the variation was larger with elective procedures than with acute.
Correlation analyses do not show clear associations with hospital bed supply and physician density in primary sectors.
The extent of the small-area variation requires further research to evaluate possible determinants of surgery rates.
Criteria for hospital admission and indications for surgery should be made explicit.
Between 1984 and 1994 the legally required task force "Advisory Committee to the German Federal Health Office in Matters of Approval and Review of Existing Medicines B3-Psychiatry, Neurology, Anesthesiology" analyzed and evaluated the CNS-active compounds that until then had only possessed a fictitious registration.
The evaluation was related to efficacy and safety within the indications claimed by the producers.
Reviews and monographies had to be established for 445 basic compounds.
One hundred positive and 30 negative monographies were published.
"Negative" indicates that none of the claimed indications could be accepted by the committee.
It is regrettable that the Federal Health Agency did not notice a considerable part of these negative evaluations until the present date.
The process of the "Aufbereitung" was stopped abruptly by the 5th amendment of the German Drug Law in August 1994, - a very doubtful political decision with respect to drug safety in this country.
Background: We attempted to illustrate connections between selected metabolic parameters and the inflammation course in patients after cataract operations.
Without a more detailed knowledge of etiology and pathogenesis of multiple sclerosis final conclusions regarding an association between physical trauma and the onset or course of multiple sclerosis cannot be drawn.
Only a few prospective studies which are appropriately designed to prove a putative correlation have been published.
A critical review of these studies and some case reports, in the light of the current pathophysiological concepts of multiple sclerosis, does not indicate a causal relationship between physical trauma and onset of multiple sclerosis or exacerbations.
We report on unusual presentation forms of Pneumocystis carinii infection of the lung in two patients with AIDS.
A 36-years-old woman presented a cavitation in the lung middle lobe and bullous changes in the apical portion of the right upper lobe on the chest x-ray.
The biopsy of these lesions was not diagnostic and the patient was operated on.
The surgical specimen of the removed lung segment showed a cavitary lesion with a border of granulation tissue with giant cells, focal recent and older hemorrhages, rests of fibrinous exudate and dystrophic calcifications.
In the surrounding tissue there were Pneumocystis carinii in the alveolar spaces and also in the alveolar walls, this tissue invasion through the organisms being most probably the cause of the cavitary change.
A cytomegalic virus infection was also found.
In aortic atresia, coronary perfusion normally occurs through retrograde blood flow in the ascending aorta.
We report on two patients with antegrade flow in the ascending aorta despite aortic atresia.
In one patient with hypoplastic left heart syndrome (aortic atresia, severe mitral stenosis), an intact interatrial septum/premature closure of the foramen ovale was found.
While no other way of left atrial or ventricular decompression was found, echocardiography, angiography and the post-mortem examination showed left ventricular to coronary sinusoids as the sole pathway for systemic oxygenation.
In a second patient with complex congenital heart disease, including aortic atresia, antegrade flow in the ascending aorta was through a left coronary fistula with shunt flow originating from the pulmonary trunc.
This report describes systemic perfusion depending on retrograde coronary flow due to coronary-cameral (sinusoids) and coronary arterio-venous fistulas leading to the phenomenon of antegrade blood flow in the ascending aorta despite aortic atresia.
The introduction of biosensor technology for near bedside measurement of plasma lactate concentrations has been a promising step for critical care profiling.
However, methodological drawbacks and relevant inaccuracy have been reported.
With the advent of a new biosensor (Chiron Diagnostics) and a revised NOVA Biomedical device, accuracy was expected to be improved.
The goal of the present investigation was to evaluate the accuracy of both methods.
The combined histological and microcomputed analysis of human iliac crest biopsies leads to major advances in our understanding of three-dimensional bone architecture.
Microcomputed tomography avoids the time-consuming reconstruction and artifacts of serial sections.
Furthermore, its high resolution allows the recording of structural differences as low as 10 mm.
Thus, three-dimensional analysis in combination with histological evaluation of cellular dynamics facilitates earlier and easier recording of changes of cancellous bone.
The aneurysmal bone cyst represents a tumorlike lesion, which does not occur frequently.
Every site of the skeleton may be involved.
Although it can be observed at any age, it distinctly predominates from 10 to 20 years of age.
Distinction of aneurysmatic bone cysts from certain benign or malignant bone tumours requires subtle imaging techniques and an experienced bone tumour pathologist.
Since the lesion shows a heterogeneous biological behaviour and typically occurs in the growing skeleton, a wide range of surgical procedures must be provided concerning tumour resection and defect reconstruction.
In the current retrospective study results of 41 surgically treated aneurysmal bone cysts, thereof 5 latent, 31 active, and 5 aggressive lesions, were investigated.
While morbidity due to the therapeutic measures was comparatively low even in extended lesions and demanding reconstructions, a recurrence rate of 19.5% had to be observed in our series.
Taking into consideration the biological activity of the lesion, analysis of the recurrences revealed inappropriate surgical margins had been chosen at the primary operation in all of these patients.
Since the risk of a local relapse is linked both to aggressiveness of the primary lesion and to surgical radicality, therapy of aneurysmal bone cyst requires preoperative staging and stage-dependent surgical procedures.
The RS3PE syndrome (Remitting Seronegative Symmetrical Synovitis with Pitting Edema) is a manifestation of rheumatoid arthritis in the elderly with a good prognosis.
It usually presents as an acute, symmetric polysynovitis with edema of the dorsum of the hands and feet.
Anti-inflammatory treatment with corticosteroids leads to prompt improvement.
We describe the case of an 81 year old man with a primarily unilateral manifestation involving the right hand.
A thrombosis of the axillary vein was suspected.
Within a few days he developed a pitting edema of the dorsum of the other hand.
Movement of both shoulders and wrists was painful.
Low-dose corticosteroid therapy resulted in a rapid improvement of the edema and the inflammatory symptoms.
The objective of this study was to determine the usefulness, safety and acceptance of a new technique of percutaneous implantation of port-catheter-systems (PIPS) for locoregional intraarterial chemotherapy of the liver.
From October 1994 to July 1996, 128 patients (30 women, 98 men) participated in an outpatient cardiac rehabilitation program (phase II).
Our objectives were to demonstrate risk-factor modification and increased work-load capacity resulting directly from the rehabilitation in terms of primary results and long-term effects, 6 months (n = 59) and 12 months (n = 30) after termination of the program.
We observed how many of the patients were able to be occupationally re-integrated after completion of phase II rehabilitation.
Here, we present the so-called "Vollmer retractor", which can be fixed on to the operating table.
It allows an optimal transference of the traction force on to the border of the wound, both in upper and lower abdominal interventions.
In this way, as shown by our recent experience, we gain an optimal view of the subdiaphragmatic area and into the small pelvis.
The disaster management in Germany is embodied in the constitution.
According to the German constitution the ministries of the interior of the federal states coordinate the disaster management by delegating it to the city and county administrations.
These elaborate and update a special disaster management calendar, which allows a prompt flow of information to and from the administration and the person in charge of operations and guarantees a smooth collaboration on which the success of the operation depends.
The American-European Consensus Conference recently recommended the following criteria for diagnosis of ARDS: (1) acute onset; (2) PaO2/FiO2<=200 mmHg regardless of PEEP level; (3) bilateral infiltrates seen on frontal chest radiograph; (4) PCWP <= 18 mmHg when measured or no clinical evidence of left atrial hypertension.
Pathophysiologically, ARDS is characterized by pulmonary edema owing to injury of the capillary-alveolar membranes and increased pulmonary artery pressure.
It is further distinguished by severe hypoxemia unresponsive to the usual methods of support for respiratory failure.
Hypoxemia is caused by intrapulmonary right-to-left shunting due to to persistent perfusion of non-ventilated alveoli.
Another characteristic feature in ARDS is the low thoracopulmonary compliance.
Latest studies suggest that the incidence of the syndrome is in the range of 3-10 cases / 100,000 inhabitants / year.
Mortality rates are a major concern: old and new reports continue to report mortality rates of 50-60%.
Thoracic organ transplantation has evolved as standard therapy in end-stage cardiac and pulmonary failure.
Meanwhile more than 50.000 heart, 2500 heart-lung and 10.000 lung transplantations have been performed worldwide.
Improvements in patient selection as well as in the postoperative management have led to 1-year survival rates of 70-90%.
Long-term results are still influenced by the development of graft vessels disease, bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome and malignancies.
Furthermore, indications and results of different procecures will be presented and new developments discussed.
The paper focuses on the cultural history of brain death in Germany in the second half of the 20th century.
It analyzes scientific and public discourses on the relevance of brain death and the importance of medical innovations in intensive care medicine.
The paper examines how the public reacted when heart transplantation led to an urgent need for a new definition of death.
It will be shown how the concept of brain death was accepted by the public, introduced into clinical routine, and implemented through medical and legal policies.
Finally, it will be analyzed why the public consensus on brain death was definitely questioned in the last ten years.
An understanding of the use of the concept of brain death by scientists, lawyers, theologians, and the public during the last three decades may help to shed light on the social role of science in modern and late-modern societies.
Background: In the course of Graves' disease (GD) the extraocular muscles become fibrotic after an acute inflammatory stage.
Differentiation of these two stages is important for therapy.
Injuries of the joints of the pelvis and of the acetabulum are still a problem even today.
When the joints of the pelvis are damaged the risk of complicated pelvic injuries, that is to say pelvic injuries with damage to the soft tissues in and around the pelvis, is increased threefold.
The lethality, the overall gravity of the injuries, the probability of haemorrhagic complications and the proportion of associated pelvic injuries are also increased.
Even when anatomical reconstruction of the lower limb girdle is achieved, long-term secondary conditions such as pain and genitourinary and neurological scquelae frequently persist.
Complicated pelvic injuries, i. e. pelvic injury with concomitant damage to organs and soft tissues in the pelvis and pelvic injuries with ipsilateral femoral fracture (floating hip) are special cases.
Haemodynamic stabilization of the patient and the treatment of organic lesions must be the first priorities in the interdisciplinary therapy.
Even when these priorities are correctly observed, the lethality is almost three times as high as in the case of pelvic injuries not involving soft-tissue damage.
Acetabular fractures are a particular challenge even compared with other joint fractures.
Operative treatment with anatomical joint reconstruction and stable internal fixation has been shown to have the best results.
In addition to the type of fracture and the personal experience of the surgeon concerned, such fracture-specific factors as the presence of further fractures of the posterior wall, comminuted fractures, joint depression fractures and intra-articular fragments increasingly play a part.
The long-term result worsens with increasing number of these additional pathologies.
The primary cartilaginous damage caused by the accident seems to have a considerable influence on the long-term result following acetabular fractures.
Two-dimensional conventional X-rays and computer tomographic imaging systems contribute to the diagnosis and surgical planning of patients with orofacial malformations.
The ability to reformat CT scans into three-dimensional osseous and soft tissue surface images has a significant impact on the diagnosis and management of orofacial malformations.
Cephalometric evaluation with teleradiography provides precise insight into both the skeletal structures and the soft parts, enabling the radiologist to assess the relationship among the different parts in a given subject, at any given time and in relation to the normal.
The purpose of this study was to check the precision of the Dräger vaporizer model 19.3 when filled with three different preparations of isoflurane.
Background: Since there is no epidemiologic assessment of the frequency of pain caused by tumor in Germany, tumor-pain-prevalence is estimated indirectly on the basis of mortality and median survival.
Knowing that about 50% of all patients having metastases or incurable locoregional recurrence suffer from pain every day, the product of median survival times mortality was calculated to achieve the number of patients' days with tumor-caused pain per year (82.710.690 days in Germany 1995).
By division with 365 (days), it is calculated that 226.605 patients require tumor pain related treatment at one day in Germany.
Another calculation based on Bonica's publications that 60-90% of patients suffering from advanced cancer are having pain and based on an estimated tumor prevalence 1989/90 revealed a tumor pain prevalence of 221.826.
Laser catheters which run eccentrically on a guide wire were developed for maximization of luminal gain by excimer laser angioplasty (ELCA).
We investigated the safety and efficacy of ELCA with these new catheters plus PTCA in patients with restenoses or occlusions in coronary stents.
The age of standardized instrumented scoliosis correction and stabilization began with Harrington instrumentation (HI).
With HI, satisfactory long-term correction of the frontal plane averaged approximately 50 %, but without notable derotational capabilities.The distraction of the concavity leads to reduction of the sagittal contour of the spine (flat back), which is biomechanically disadvantageous.
The newer multisegmentally attached implant systems avoid this disadvantage.
The first prototypes of these systems were Luque- (SSI) and Cotrel-Dubousset instrumentation.
Ideal indications for posterior instrumented curve correction are structural idiopathic double major curves and flexible single curves.
However, even with these newer doublerod systems derotation is low, because derotation is, without any doubt, related to anterior release and thus decoupling of the segments by means of disc resection.
Autoaggressive syndromes as causes of diseases underlying chronic blepharitis and keratoconjunctivitis that are refractory to treatment are often difficult to recognize.
The surgical correction of a tandem stenosis of the carotid artery is sometimes difficult, especially if the second stenosis is near or above the skull base.
Angioplasty and Stent implantation may offer an alternative to standard surgical procedures in the treatment of carotid stenoses in the future.
However, the potential advantages of these endovascular techniques warrant continued evaluation.
The application of these techniques in carotid artery tandem stenoses presents specific problems and dangers.
We discuss the case of a 78-year-old man with severe carotid stenoses on both sides and an additional symptomatic tandem stenosis above the skull base on the right side.
After the surgical correction of the left carotid artery using standard endarterectomy, we performed endarterectomy on the right side in combination with an open Stent implantation.
The periungual fibromas in tuberous sclerosis are also known as Koenen tumors.
Joannes Henricus Maria Koenen was born on March 10, 1893, in Eindhoven and died in Bois-le-Duc May 29, 1956.
From 1910 to 1918 he studied medicine at the University of Amsterdam.
Then he worked as a physician at the "Coudewater" asylum in Rosmalen and from 1929 in the "Voorburg" asylum in Vught.
In 1932 he published his publication concerning a family with tuberous sclerosis in which photographs of periungual fibromas are shown.
His thesis in 1933 at the University in Leiden was titled "Imbecility in children.
Its Importance in pedagogic and social regard, by reason of an investigation in some communities in Noord-Brabant".
Later he was appointed director of a state mental institution.
The periungual fibromas in tuberous sclerosis were first described by Richad Kothe in Munich in 1903.
Parallel with the increasing number of coronary stent implantation procedures, new or more elaborate coronary stents were introduced into clinical use almost every month in 1996.
We have studied the architecture, surface-morphology, and shape-conversion of 16 different coronary stent systems.
The objective of our study was to detect possible specific design and surface features which might influence the healing process, instent restenosis, and stent thrombosis.
Using electron microscopy we found ultrasmooth surfaces on 5 stents.
All other coronary stents revealed individually varying and partly sharp-edged surface irregularities.
Video-based morphometry showed covering between 8.3% and 26.4%.
Stent shortening after in-vitro expansion ranged from 0% up to 10.5% of the initial stent length.
In some stent systems balloon dilation lead to over-expansion of the stent margaine.
This over-expansion mounted up to 20% of the balloon diameter and the stents revealed a rather biconcave than homogenous expansion pattern.
This phenomenon was also found after postmortal stent implantation in 20 autopsied hearts.
Unilateral hearing loss (HL) caused by an acoustic neuroma (AN) is regarded to be neural ("non-cochlear").
By using otoacoustic emissions it is possible to prove concurrent sensory (cochlear) HL.
We prefer distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE) because these are more frequency-specific and stable.
From April 1994 to May 1996, we examined preoperatively 24 patients with radiologically proven AN.
Pure-tone audiometry, DP-grams, brainstem-evoked response audiometry (BERA) and vestibular studies were performed in all cases, while special auditory tests (Fowler, Carhart) and short increment sensitivity indices were also performed in 12 cases.
BERA was pathological in 23 cases and latencies were borderline in one case.
After comparing audiograms and DP-grams we found 13 patients with sensory HL, 4 patients with combined sensorineural HL and 7 patients with neural HL.
There was a strong correlation between the results of DPOAE and the results of special auditory test (=0.63) whereas there was no correlation between tumor size and cochlear function.
The result showed that the typical HL caused by AN was a combined sensorineural loss.
DPOAE were not suited for the detection of AN but were able to give exact information about any remaining cochlear function.
The monoclonal dominant malignant T cells in mycosis fungoides (MF) carry identical TCR rearrangements.
Their detection is a useful diagnostic tool.
Thus, in routine diagnosis we investigated the occurrence of monoclonal T cells in skin biopsy samples of MF-patients by TCR-PCR, followed by temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TGGE).
In 188 out of 208 MF patients, at least one skin sample with sufficient DNA quality for PCR analysis was obtained.
Applying a consensus PCR for the TCR genes VI and J 1/2, we detected monoclonal T cells in 122 cases (65%).
In the remaining 66 cases, we performed two multiplex-PCRs, covering rearrangements of the other TCR genes.
Here we found in 11 cases (6%) predominant clonal rearrangements of VII-IV and J 1/2 and in 2 (1%) those of VI-IV and J P1/2.
In patients with MF, detecting rearrangements of only VI and J 1/2 is sufficient for PCR screening analysis.
In 53 of the patients (28%) the applied methods revealed no monoclonal T cells.
This may be due to a low cell number, oligoclonal nature, chromosomal abberations or remaining of TCR in germline configuration.
Despite significant improvements in early detection of hearing losses in children, a relatively long interval still exists from initial concern by families to definite audiological identification.
The aim of our retrospective cross-sectional study was to identify parental factors contributing to the delay of early detection.
The parents of 70 hearing-impaired children were interviewed.
All children were fitted with hearing aids in our clinical and had no additional physical or cognitive disabilities.
At an average age of 19.5 months, parents or family doctors noticed first signs of a possible hearing impairment.
On average it then took an additional 7.2 months until hearing impairment was diagnosed by an expert and the necessary first steps taken for rehabilitation (fitting of hearing aids).
Significantly, total hearing loss or profound hearing impairments were detected earlier than mild or moderate hearing impairments.
In addition to hearing loss, parental education correlated significantly with an earlier start of rehabilitation.
Statistical analysis revealed that children with hearing-impaired close relatives as well as first-born children tended to be diagnosed later.
To further improve secondary prevention of hearing loss, the competence of specific parental groups should be taken into consideration.
After the incidental puncture of a sidebranch of the thyreocervical trunk during a subclavian vein catheterization, a symptomatic av-fistula developped.
The diagnosis was confirmed by angiography.
Using a microcatheter system the fistula was occluded with microcoils.
This prospective study was designed to compare quality of life, life satisfaction, and subjective ratings of health before and at variable time intervals after heart transplantation (HTx).
175 patients were included between February 1994 and December 1997.
Every six months before and 1,5, 3, 6, and 12 months after HTx, they received the following standardized and validated questionnaires: German SF 36, heart failure and specific transplant symptom list, global quality of life assessment, Munich life quality dimension list, expected/experienced life changes after HTx, good command of the German language, and a minimum age of 18 years.
During data evaluation, median (Me), mean (M), and standard deviation (SD) were created from individual parameters.
Quality of life was rated as very poor by 84% of patients with congestive heart failure.
Only 6 weeks after HTx, 74% rated their quality of life as significantly better.
Before HTx 80% were very unsatisfied about their health status and 87% about physical performance.
Six weeks after HTx, this parameter improved significantly and 76% were very satisfied about their health status and 50% about physical performance.
While somatic changes expected before HTx corresponded well with experienced ones, psychological improvements were smaller than expected, but one year after HTx they were significant (before: M=3.66; SD=0.9; Range (R)=3.78 vs 12 months postop: M=4.61; SD=0.6; R=2.67; p<0.05).
Quality of life correlated before HTx best with subjectively rated health (r=0.61, p<0.01) and 6 months after with satisfaction about health status (r=0.76, p<0.01).
Only in 25% were expected improvements fulfilled regarding sexual activity/satisfaction, professional situation, and recreational activities.
90% of posttransplant patients reported physical compaints, most by effects of immunsuppression, but were coping well.
The study shows that already 6 weeks after successful HTx all quality of life parameters improved significantly.
Despite some unfulfilled expectations and complaints, the postoperative life situation of HTx patients appeared significantly improved.
Sevoflurane is a "new" volatile inhaled anaesthetic.
Owing to its lower blood-gas solubility coefficient, emergence from anaesthesia is faster with sevoflurane than with isoflurane, enflurane, or halothane.
Sevoflurane undergoes metabolic biodegradation, releasing inorganic fluoride ions that could produce nephrotoxicity.
In this study, we compared serum inorganic fluoride concentrations (IFCs) in patients receiving either sevoflurane or enflurane.
Furthermore, indices of renal function were evaluated until the 3rd postoperative day.
Background: Rarely, an additional Brown's syndrome develops spontaneously in cases of posttraumatic bilateral superior oblique palsy.
Surgical measures are controversial and problematic.
Metastasis formation is a multistep process that requires tumor cells to progress through many different stages.
One of the first steps is a disturbance of the epithelial integrity through a decrease in intercellular homotypic adhesion.
Proteolysis of the extracellular matrix, as well as increased locomotion, leads to intravasation and dissemination of the tumor cells.
In the target organs metastasizing cells adhere to the endothelium, extravasate and form metastases.
Finally, neoangiogenesis is required for the initiation as well as the growth of the metastases, providing the tumor cells with both nutritive agents and growth factors.
This leads to the conclusion that anti-proteolytic and anti-angiogenic substances could provide effective therapeutic approaches for the control of metastatic growth.
Whether or not this goal can be accomplished by synthetic or endogenous drugs must still be demonstrated by basic and definitive clinical research.
Purpose: The purpose of this study was to present our experience and results with arthroscopic resection of the acromioclavicular joint.
Urodynamic examinations were performed in 82 patients with clinically localized prostate cancer before and after radical prostatectomy.
A significant decrease in bladder capacity (396 ml to 331.9 ml), urethral closure pressure (89.6 cm H2O to 65.,2 cm H2O) and functional profile length (61 mm to 25.9 mm) was noted.
The continence rate after radical prostatectomy was 33.4 % after 1 month, 69.4 % after 3 months, 84.7 % after 6 months, and 90.9 % after 12 months, respectively.
A correlation was found between urethral closure pressure and functional profile length and continence.
A second urodynamic examination was performed 6 months after radical prostatectomy.
Functional profile length and urethral closure pressure increased.
These data suggest that restoration of continence is based on sphincteric parameters.
We are interested in the interaction of high-energy ultrasound with biological tissue with regard to cancer therapy.
The physical and biological aspects of this are reviewed and summarized in this paper.
The preliminary results give reason to hope, as ultrasound is easy to focuse and might be applicable as a supplementary therapeutic technique in ultrasound-accessible tumors.
The changes observed in biological studies are clearly a function of the pyhsical parameters.
Therefore, it is possible to calculate and predict the biological effects.
Recent results have shown the potential of magnetic resonance imaging in monitoring ultrasound therapy online.
The capability of MRI to measure temperature will be an important tool for the safe and reliable application of this new therapeutic approach.
The role of ultrasound therapy in the management of human tumors must be clarified in carefully conducted clinical trials.
Posttraumatic deformities after pediatric fractures are either the result of incomplete or failed remodeling, complete or partial stimulation of the growth plates, or complete or partial closure of a growth plate.
In contrast to fractures of the upper extremities, spontaneous remodeling should not be intentionally integrated in the treatment algorithm.
In the context of the quality assurance program of the German pension insurance institutions, instruments and procedures have been developed in the past few years in order to assess the quality of structure, process, and results of inpatient rehabilitation, as well as patient satisfaction.
The routine implementation of these procedures aims at providing rehabilitation hospitals with fast information on shortcomings in their current practice, so that concepts of treatment and - in the long run - effects of rehabilitation can be systematically improved.
When the "quality profiles" of rehabilitation hospitals are compared ("benchmarking"), paying institutions of rehabilitation could gain information on the cost-quality-ratio of particular hospitals as well as important leads for improving the steering processes of patients and hospitals.
In the present article, results of a first "field-run" of the procedures for measuring patient satisfaction and quality of rehabilitation processes are reported.
A comparative analysis of patient satisfaction in four orthopaedic/rheumatologic rehabilitation hospitals showed high degrees of overall satisfaction in all hospitals.
In several subdimensions of patient satisfaction, however, significant differences between hospitals were found.
Quality of rehabilitation processes - as assessed by a standardized peer-review - varied substantially between 36 hospitals.
Problems of quality were found especially in some dimensions that must be considered as crucial for rehabilitation, e.g., in the history and diagnosis of disabilities, in the consideration of psycho-social problems, or in the assessment of occupational capacities.
The analysis of THR-failures showed that the acetabular component still is the main problem of total hip replacement.
The acetabular cup fails more often than the stem.
In the midterm analysis the failure rate is a little bit higher in cementless than in cement fixed cups.
The known effect that the failure rate of cups fixed with cement increases exponentially 8 to 10 years after implantation, could of course not be seen in this study.
The success of the cementless fixation was negatively influenced by the diagnosis rheumatoid arthritis, age over 70 and the fixation manner: the failure rate of threaded cups was higher than the one of pressfit cups although the Zweymüller-cup as well as the Link type V-cup showed good results.
The midterm results of the stem were very good for the cementless as for the cemented technique.
Some implants showed compared to others significantly worse results.
The further implantation should be thought of, what partially has already happened.
The results of cementless stem fixation in patients with rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthrosis and dysplastic osteoarthritis is comparable, so that cementless fixation should be thought of in case of adequate conditions (ability of partial weight bearing for some weeks, age under 60).
Type I and type II diabetes are the most common types of diabetes.
The ratio of type I to type II diabetes is about 1:9.
Type I diabetes is caused by an absolute insulin deficiency and is therefore referred to as insulin-dependent diabetes.The disease becomes manifest clinically in childhood or adolescence ("juvenile diabetes"), although manifestation in adulthood is being increasingly observed.
Morphologically, a subtotal ( > 80 %) to total loss of beta cells in the pancreatic islets occurs.
Lymphocytic insulitis, which disappears after the beta cells have been totally destroyed, is pathognomonic of type I diabetes.
This insulitis is an expression of an autoimmune event that is triggered by a multitude of factors.
An important factor appears to be a genetic predisposition (HLA DR3/DR4/DQ8) in connection with as yet unknown environmental factors (e. g., viruses).
Autoantibodies, such as islet cell cytoplasmic antibodies (ICA), insulin autoantibodies (IAA), and/or autoantibodies to the GABA-synthesizing enzyme glutamic acid carboxylase (GAD), are already detectable in a prediabetic phase, although it is not possible to predict the time of clinical manifestion.
The course of the disease is dependent on age.
Young children require insulin therapy sooner than juveniles or adults.
This article summarizes data from recent studies on the prevalence, diagnosis and therapy of the obstructive sleep apnea syndrome (OSAS) in children.
The prevalence of this disorder in 4-6 year old children is 0.7%.
Leading clinical sign in 90% of patients is habitual snoring, but this is rather nonspecific, as 60% of patients investigated for habitual snoring do not have OSAS.
Other signs such as daytime sleepiness, failure to thrive, profuse nocturnal sweating or mouth breathing are equally nonspecific.
The diagnosis, therefore, has to be confirmed by polysomnography, where OSAS is suggested by the occurrence of >5 obstructive apneas/hypopneas per hour of sleep in conjunction with a CO2 of >50 mmHg for >8% of sleep time and/or >1 desaturation to <=90%/h.
Patients with progressive cancer and their families face a series of existential crises with each stage of disease up to terminal stages in which palliative treatment is begun, and patients come to accept the inevitability of death.
This can lead to a unique, highly emotional situation with direct or indirect, open or hidden, varied and very personal manifestations.
The dermatological clinic in Homburg was founded in 1945.
In 1947 it was integrated into the Saarland University as a dermatology department.
A review of the history of the clinic documents advances and challenges in clinical dermatology, as well as new developments in related basic research during the last 50 years.
The coexistence of carotid artery stenosis with coronary artery disease occurs in a small percentage of patients requiring open heart surgical procedures.
Whether the combined surgical approach favorably influences the outcome of patients requiring major cardiac operations remains controversial.
We report the successful thrombectomy of the internal carotid artery.
A 33-year-old woman suffered from ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome after treatment with FSH/HCG for in-vitro fertilization.
She developed a transient left hemiparesis.
This was caused by a floating thrombus located in the internal carotid artery.
Open surgical treatment with thrombectomy prevents recurrent neurological symptoms.
The development of hand eczema is a relatively commonly seem dermatosis in housewives.
In 1986 we presented a first survey of potential contact dermatitis sources for a housewife.
Now, we present an update in which we analyse the different contact sources in the household and grade them in comparison to the data of 1986.
The results are based on the analysis of a large population of 2633 patients with the occupation "housewife" and the diagnosis "eczema" who have been seen in departments of dermatology belonging to the Information Network of Departments of Dermatology (IVDK).
Data for HIV infection on transmission probabilities per contact are of widely differing quality.
Estimates of infection probabilities after sexual exposures are the most problematic, even though sexual exposure is the most frequent transmission risk.
Extrapolations of data from discordant couple cohort studies and from US seroincidence studies may be seriously biased.
Infectivity of and susceptibility to HIV may be influenced by concomitant STDs, antiretroviral therapy, alloimmunization and/or subinfectious virus exposures and thus may show a wide range of inter- and intraindividual variability.
Differences in factors influencing transmission probability of HIV most likely outweigh differences in sexual behaviour in explaining the differences in epidemic spread of HIV.
Between January 1989 and March 1997, 175 patients with traumatic shoulder dislocations were treated by conservative means (median age 41 years, 39 F, 136 M).
In 78 patients (17 F, 61 M) a clinical and radiological follow up (median 50 months, range 6-106) could be obtained.
Additionally, a diagnostic ultrasound was carried out in all patients.
The recurrence rate in the group younger than 30 years (G < 30; n = 35) was 86 %; in the group older than 30 years (G > 30; n = 43) it was 21 % (P < 0.05).
Persisting neurological deficits were found in 6 patients (8 %).
According to the Rowe score, 16 patients (46 %) of the G < 30 achieved excellent or good results, in the G > 30, 29 patients (67 %).
In 17 % of cases, a glenohumeral arthrosis was diagnosed be radiological means.
18 % had radiological signs of a previous fracture of the greater tuberosity.
Hill-Sachs lesions were identified in 19 % of cases.
Rotator cuff tears were diagnosed in 9 % by ultrasound.
No relationship between the duration of immobilization and the recurrence rate was found (P = 0.95).
The recurrence rate following primary shoulder dislocation depends primarily on the patients' age.
We analyzed quality assurance protocol records of 532 geriatric hospital patients in comparison to an administration database concerning data on "length of stay" information (LOS).
Doctors handwritten quality assurance protocol records corresponded in 74.25% of cases to administration data.
14.47% of cases were registered with different LOS; 11.28% of LOS information was missing.
The increasing amount of documentation tasks in German geriatric hospitals is discussed.
Conclusion: We assume that not only discrete well known information (admission and discharge dates, LOS) are contaminated by documentation failure but also data on functional status of geriatric patients which may have important influence on external data processing.
The majority of patients with symptomatic spondylolysis can be treated conservatively.
Only when symptoms persist in spite of conservative treatment surgery may be indicated.
In young patients, however, fusion of a mobile segment should be avoided, but a direct repair of the pars defect can be attempted.
This procedure allows complete healing and possibly avoids degeneration of the intervertebral disk.
For this purpose Morscher developed the hook screw, which connects the arch with the anterior articular process.
It allows compression of the defect without crossing the defect with the screw.
A follow-up study of the first 33 patients with a follow-up time of 3.5 years on average showed a good subjective result in 79 % of the patients.
In patients younger than 20 years of age, however, the result was good in 87.5 % of cases.
The reason for the better results in young patients is that in older patients the origin of the pain is often not the pars defect, but the degeneration of the intervertebral disk.
Direct repair of spondylolysis is therefore indicated when pain persists after 6 months of conservative treatment or there is a progressive olisthesis of not more than 10 mm.
After the end of growth an MRI study of the intervertebral discs should show whether there is degeneration or not.
Direct repair is indicated only in the absence of disc degeneration.
After the age of 25 years this procedure should not be carried out.
We are presenting a 47-year-old woman who was stung by jellyfish while bathing in the sea of Thailand.
Immediately after the injury she developed sharp pain and urticarial erythema of the skin of the knees accompanied by muscle cramps of the entire body.
After a few days a toxic contact dermatitis with edematous swelling and ulcerations developed, which did not respond to topical antibiotics or corticosteroids.
Three weeks later the patient presented with a disseminated urticarial eruption, which at first responded well to topical treatment and systemic corticosteroids.
Over the next few weeks, however, a relapse of the eruption and the ulcerations occurred.
Raised titres of IgG and IgM antibodies against different jellyfish from the Indian and Pacific Ocean were detected in the patient's serum by the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.
Antibodies against bees (class 1) and wasps (class 4) were found by the radioallergosorbent test.
The clinical features and the immunological findings led to the diagnosis of toxic and allergic contact dermatitis to jellyfish venom.
First aid and secondary treatment of jellyfish injuries are suggested.
The design of controlled clinical trials on prevention and therapy of arrhythmic events is a difficult task.
In particular in ICD trials, false estimations and omissions have occured that can compromise the interpretation of a trial.
Identification of crucial issues that should be regulated in a study protocol in order to minimize the risk of failure.
Evaluation of the weaknesses of completed antiarrhythmic trials.
Problems in the specification of indications and in the estimation of the effective sample size cannot be solved by the inclusion of mixed populations but require the establishment of development programs.
Further crucial points are the appropriate choice of control and the identical concomittant treatment and observation of the groups to be compared.
Technical mistakes as imprecise definitions, arbitrary decisions during the course or at termination of a trial, unclear responsibilities or an unscheduled flow of information can be avoided if these potential problems are anticipated in the trial protocol.
A prospective approach that anticipates problems at the time the study protocol is drafted is preferable to a reluctant reactive approach during the course of the trial.
Ultrasound is the primary imaging modality after kidney transplantation.
Its general availability and the absence of radiation exposure and discomfort for the patient also make it a suitable procedure for follow-up.
Simple B-mode sonography provides comprehensive information on the morphology of the renal transplant and surrounding structures, while color-coded duplex sonography (CCDS) additionally allows assessment of the anastomoses and organ perfusion.
More recent technical advances such as power Doppler ultrasound appear to improve in particular the assessment of peripheral circulation.
The possibilities and limitations of the various sonographic techniques in the evaluation of kidney transplants are discussed with special reference to the most important clinical aspects and some basic technical concepts.
Purpose: The first morphological changes in eyes with HIV infection are microvascular disease of the retina with cotton-wool spots and microaneurysms.
The study was performed to find out if evidence of disturbances of ocular microcirculation can be established by non-invasive methods.
The operative realignment of mechanical axis deviations (MAD) is necessary to prevent early joint degeneration and to reach normal load-bearing.
Modern types of external fixation systems allow an alignment of the mechanical axis to exact degrees.
Predominantly this are corrections of angular deformities.
In some cases the analysis of the MAD does not show any angular deformity, but a parallel staggering of the mechanical axis lines of a bone.
Such parallel staggering of the mechanical axis lines is defined as a translation deformity of the bone.
In combined deformities with angulation and translation the centre of deformity can be established proximal or distal out of the limit of the bone.
In translation deformities the realignment of the mechanical axis requires a parallel re-staggering made by a translation-osteotomy or by a counterangulated double osteotomy.
In complex deformities with angulation and translation, the translation requires a separate corrective planning.
By using external fixator systems to perform acute or progressive corrective osteotomies the position of the Axis of Correction of Angulation (ACA) in relation to the n-CORA of the deformity has to be considered.
If ACA position is not conform with the n-CORA position relevant geometric effects in relation of length and translation occur.
These geometric effects to corrective osteotomies can be calculated by using simple trigonometric formulas or graphical methods.
Possibilities to compensate translation and length effects are shown by using unilateral external fixator systems.
The employers' liability insurance association for victuallers and licensed victuallers has been controlling healing procedures with the aid of a computer program for several years.
The personal data of the injured patient and the precise diagnosis of the injury are used to prepare a forecast of the duration of the treatment and of the patient's inability to work.
The basis of this forecast is provided by tables integrated in the program, which have been elaborated by experts on trauma medicine and also constantly refined by them.
Meanwhile numerous insurance companies concerned with accidents and trauma have acquired the program and are intending to use it.
The objective is a national database on trauma medicine covering the whole of Germany.
It is intended that its evaluation will help to guarantee the quality of concomitant treatment of trauma victims and also yield some indications on how best to realize the networking of institutions concerned with acute treatment and rehabilitation.
Stroke and its consequences are under medical, sociologic and socioeconomic aspects one of the biggest contemporary challenges.
Due to the demographic development the importance of this disease will further increase.
Nonetheless acute therapy of ischemic stroke up to now was marked by therapeutic nihilism and adherence to empiric therapeutic procedures.
Only the admission of rt-Pa in the USA in 1996 for the systemic thrombolysis in ischemic insults less then 3 hours old led to a change in therapeutic strategies.
The good profit-risk-ratio of early thrombolysis with rt-Pa could be confirmed by further studies lately.
In the meantime this therapy was officially recommended by the AHA in the importance of grade A recommendation.
In Europe thrombolysis is equally promoted as the procedure of choice.
At present only few patients receive such a treatment.
A thrombolytic therapy can only be provided by a minority of centers due to high requirement in infra-structure.
Furthermore clinic admission often appears with immense loss of time.
Unfortunately also within the clinics there are relevant latencies until therapeutic intervention.
Therefore fundamental requirements for thrombolytic therapy are the indentification of potentially suitable patients and the rapid transfer to an appropriate clinic.
A 69-year-old patient with reduced pulmonary function was diagnosed as suffering from non-small cell lung cancer of the left lung invading the main bronchus, pulmonary artery and left atrium.
Using cardiopulmonary bypass, an extended pneumonectomy with partial resection of the left atrium was performed.
The cardiac defect was closed with a pericardial patch.
The lower lobe was divided ex situ from the upper lobe and reimplanted with anastomosis of the lower pulmonary vein to the left auricle.
After a totally uneventful course the patient is in good condition and free of tumor recurrence 2.5 years postoperatively.
In this retrospective study we report the indications, complications and functional and cosmetic results after dermofat grafting into anophthalmic orbits.
The method consists of implantation of autogenous dermis with attached subcutaneous fat from the gluteal region into the orbit.
Twenty-four primary and 4 secondary grafts were implanted in 28 patients aged 12 to 49 years.
In the explantation site one patient showed delayed healing.
All implants became integrated, none were lost because of infection or extrusion.
Eleven patients developed minor complications like central ulceration in the dermis, hair growth on the dermis or suture granuloma.
In the primary implant group the functional and cosmetic outcome was evaluated by measurements of the lid structures, exophthalmometry (Hertel) and measuring the prosthesis motility (Kestenbaum).
Three patients showed fair results; all the others had good or very good results.
In one case of a secondary implant marked graft atrophy was observed.
Despite the more extensive surgery and some minor complications the safety of this method with good functional and cosmetic results makes dermofat grafting an excellent alternative to heterogenous orbital implants.
Liver tissue from 14 female patients with primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC; stages I-IV) was systematically investigated for the prevalence and distribution of dendritic antigen-presenting cells.
Dendritic cells (DCs) were immunhistochemically identified by use of anti-S 100 protein and KiMlp antibodies.
We confirm previous findings that, in early PBC, S 100 protein-positive DCs can be detected within the lining of bile duct epithelia.
However, the present study disclosed that S 100 protein- and KiMlp-positive DCs regularly occur in piecemeal necroses (PMNs) developing in PBC-associated chronic hepatitis.
DCs in PMNs were observed in all PBC stages, but were most prominent in late-stage PBC.
These findings suggest that autoimmune tissue damage in PBC may not be limited to bile ducts, but may also ensue in hepatic parenchyma, producing the pattern of chronic hepatitis with signs of activity.
Health care in emergencies is a social good and a hallmark of a humane society, the ethical foundations of which have to form the basis of all decisions regarding medical emergencies.
The ethics of emergency medical care are part of general medical ethics.
Their principles are outlined and put into perspective with regard to dilemmas characteristic of emergency care.
Due to dwindling resources, the efficiency of emergency medical care is being increasingly scrutinized.
Possibilities of rationalizing care without compromising its quality are being discussed, such as renouncing futile therapy and implementing measures of prevention.
If emergency medical services are to accomplish their mission, however, observing standards of medical practice, legal provisions, and the given framework of society, they must not surrender to pure cost containment.
We performed a phase II trial with second-line chemotherapy in patients with refractory, metastatic cancer of the bladder.
Second-line therapy consists of 2.6 cycles of mitomycin-C, 5-fluorouracil and folic acid.
Two patients suffered from WHO grade III side effects (nephrotoxicity, leukocytopenia).
We did not find any complete or partial remission.
Four patients had a stable disease; 3.3 months after therapy, patients developed tumor progression with a median survival of 9 months.
Four patients reported an improvement in quality of life.
Since all patients received supportive care, improvement in quality of life cannot be related to chemotherapy alone.
In conclusion, second-line chemotherapy with mitomycin-C, 5-fluorouracil and folic acid has no effect on refractory, metastatic cancer of the bladder and is no alternative for cisplatin and methotrexate-based chemotherapy.
Every form of active euthanasia is a punishable offence under § 216 of the Penal Code; nor is there any ethical justification for it from a medical point of view.
The many strands of the movement in favour of making "death on demand" exempt from punishment in Germany as it is in The Netherlands cannot change this.
The oral retinoid etretinate (Tigason) has recently been replaced by trans-acitretin (Neotigason) in the treatment of severe psoriasis, primarily because of its short half-life and the assumption that a shorter period of subsequent contraception would be required.
After introduction of the new drug, however, circulating quantities of etretinate were detected in patients treated with trans-acitretin.
Thus far, re-esterification has been detected in at least 83 cases.
The 2-month period of strict contraception initially recommended after oral intake of trans-acitretin has been extended to 2 years, as with etretinate.
We review some aspects of trans-acitretin metabolism, with special emphasis on etretinate formation.
Re-esterification of trans-acitretin into etretinate takes place under varying conditions in volunteers and patients, as well as in animal models.
Ethanol is a co-factor for the enzymatic re-esterification of trans-acitretin.
It is unclear whether the introduction of trans-acitretin has been of any significant benefit to patients.
Monitoring of plasma retinoid levels during and after retinoid therapy remains of decisive importance in managing difficult cases and or in approving decisions for pregnancy.
The purpose of this study was to compare the midterm results of the conservative treatment of anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) ruptures in athletes.
During 1989 and 1990, 279 athletes with ACL ruptures were treated in our Sports Surgery Department, and 221 of them were suitable for inclusion in the study.
The patients were divided into two groups based on management after the diagnosis of ACL rupture had been  made.
Group I (n = 129) underwent ACL reconstruction using free bone-patellar tendon-bone autografts, while group II (n = 92) received conservative treatment.
We were able to evaluate 92 patients during follow-up (42 from group I and 50 from group II).
The average follow-up period was 86 months.
There were no significant differences between the two groups regarding the patients' age, sex, or level of sports activity.
Follow-up consisted of clinical and radiological examinations and recording of the subjective opinions of the patients.
During follow-up, we used IKDC and OAK scores to evaluate the results.
We found significantly better results in the group that was operated on if the patients took part in high-risk pivoting sports, but there was no difference if the patients were in the low-risk or no-risk pivoting group of athletes.
Concerning reoperation and early arthrosis, the difference was significant between the two groups.
Background: By depletion of stratospheric ozone, enhanced levels of UV radiation reach the surface of the earth.
Exposure of the anterior parts of the eye to UV radiation leads to irritation of the conjunctival and corneal cells.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the reliability of a low field strength MRI unit (0.2 T; Esaote, Biomedica) and a high field strength MRI unit (1.5 T; Siemens) in detecting meniscal lesions.
Twenty patients were investigated on a 0.2-T low-field MRI unit and a 1.5-T high-field MRI unit for meniscal lesions.
Evaluation was performed of four meniscal compartments (anterior and posterior medial and lateral meniscus), for a total of 80 observations.
The reliability of diagnosis was ranked qualitatively on a three-point scale.
Investigations of the high-field MRI unit revealed a meniscal tear in 6 patients and ruled out a tear in 14 patients.
Evaluation of individual meniscal compartments revealed diagnosis with high confidence in 58 observations and with moderate confidence in 22 observations.
Investigations of the low-field MRI unit revealed a meniscal tear in 5 patients and ruled out tears in 15 patients.
Evaluation of individual meniscal compartments revealed diagnosis with high confidence in 39 observations, with moderate confidence in 38 observations, and with low confidence in 3 observations.
The diagnosis in high- and low-field images was identical in 98.7 % of cases; in one patient observations from the high-field unit changed the therapeutic management.
Diagnostic reliability was significantly higher with highfield strength MR imaging.
Low field strength MR imaging shows comparatively high diagnostic accuracy for meniscal lesions compared to high field strength imaging; however, we demonstrated a significantly higher confidence in diagnosis with high-field MR imaging.
The past decade has seen the successful application of genetic techniques in the dissection of the most important phenotypes of cancer cells.
In the case of drug resistance mechanisms, the elucidation of the genes involved in resistance to anticancer agents has led to new and unexpected information about tumor physiology and may well open therapeutic options by virtue of reversing clinical chemoresistance.
The experimental characterization of defined multidrug resistance factors, such as P-glycoprotein, multidrug resistance associated protein, topoisomerase, or glutathione-S-transferase in urologic malignancies, is now relatively comprehensive, allowing for an initial analysis.
Clinical studies on some of these concepts have been started and will be the subject of careful scrutinity.
We expect that they will have a considerable impact on the way certain urologic anticancer strategies will be pursued in the future.
A study was carried out to determine the risk of dysesthesia of the inferior alveolar and of the lingual nerve after molar surgery.
A total of 1103 impacted lower wisdom teeth and 3 impacted lower second molars were removed in 687 patients, all of whom with unaltered sensibility preoperatively.
Clinical, radiological, and surgical factors of each case were recorded.
Postoperative disturbances in the sensibility of the lip and tongue were evaluated by neurological examination.
Follow-up was carried out for a maximum of 35 weeks.
Dysesthesia of the inferior alveolar nerve occurred with an incidence of 3.57%.
The lingual nerve was injured in 2.1% of patients.
Most of the initially reported alterations in sensation resolved within the follow-up period.
Dysesthesia of the inferior alveolar nerve persisted in 0.91%, and of the lingual nerve in 0.37%.
However, the extent of the prolonged impairment was slight in general.
The effect of the documented factors on the incidence of dysesthesia was analyzed.
For the inferior alveolar nerve, analysis revealed significant effects in older patients, for completely developed roots, for deeply impacted teeth, in the radiological relationship of the roots and the inferior alveolar canal, for difficult surgery, and for intraoperative exposure of the nerve.
The surgeon and the anesthesia had a significant influence on lingual dysesthesia.
Background: This review of radiological and other procedures used in the diagnosis of (chronic) low-back pain is not intended to provide a complete evaluation of the methods employed, because the validity, specificity and sensitivity of the various diagnostic measures are the subject of so much controversy that a comprehensive discussion would be beyond the scope of the present overview.
The choice of method depends not only on the clinical symptoms but also on the localisation of the pain, the aetiology of which may also be related to the age of the patient.
Enteritis and pseudoappendicitis are typical manifestations of Yersinia infections in children.
This is a report on a child with localised tumourous mesenteric lymphadenitis due to Yersinia enterocolitica persistent for a long time.
We found specific antibodies against Yersinia outer membrane proteins repeat-edly in the patients' serum.
Only after a ciprofloxacin therapy for 16 weeks we observed a recovery of our patient.
The present study investigates patients' expectations toward radiotherapy and their associations to quality of life and physician judgements.
Fifty-five patients with tumors of different sites (30 with previous tumor-related surgery, 25 without surgery) admitted to the department of radiotherapy filled out a standardized questionnaire (EORTC QLQ-C30, PLC by Siegrist et al., therapy-related expectations and success) before and after inpatient radiotherapy.
The corresponding physician ratings were collected.
Fifty-eight percent of the patients expected the therapeutic goal "healing", whereas from the physician's standpoint this was realistic in only 7 % of cases.
The specific radiotherapy-related expectations "tumor control" and "pain relief" reached almost the same levels in patients and physician (71 % vs 71 % and 40 % vs 44 %).
Patients with healing expectancy reported higher quality of life at the beginning of the therapy (53.4 % vs 39.9 %); patients expecting pain relief reported lower quality of life (37.1 % vs 54.5 %).
Surgical patients who had been operated on within the past year (n = 18) showed a particularly high healing expectancy (83 %), whereas patients whose operation dated back more than 1 year focused on pain relief as therapeutic goal (83 %).
The surgeon, as the primary contact person for patients, can influence patients' therapy-related expectations.
In explaining the overall therapeutic strategy, surgeons should also mention the scope and limits of adjuvant therapies.
The meanings of the terms "quality", "quality of care", and "quality management" were clarified with common international definitions.
Based on that, the basic ideas, concepts, and objectives of quality management in medicine were explained.
Finally some future trends related to quality were viewed, which represent challenges for the medical profession and entire medicine.
The papular-purpuric "gloves and socks" syndrome (PPGSS) was first described in 1990 by Harms et al.
The syndrome is characterised by fever, an itchy erythema with edema, confluent papules and purpura of the hands and feet in a "gloves and socks" distribution.
The skin lesions may be associated with purpura and superficial erosions of the oral mucosa.
Viral infections, in particular parvovirus B19, are the most likely trigger.
In the present case PPGSS developed after taking trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole.
Since the patient developed identical symptoms after accidental re-challenge with the same drug, this case strongly suggests medications as another factor in the pathogenesis of PPGSS.
Most fractures of the clavicle heal well with nonoperative treatment.
On rare occasions, malunited clavicular fractures are associated with a pattern of disability that includes not only pain but also functional or neurovascular impairment.
In these cases, clavicular osteotomy and correction of the deformity should be considered.
In four patients with a malunited fracture of the clavicle following nonoperative treatment, we performed a clavicular osteotomy for deformity.
In all four patients the clavicular fracture healed with shortening associated with pain and ipsilateral glenohumeral dysfunction.
The deformity was not associated with neurovascular dysfunction.
In preoperative X-ray studies, the shortening of the malunited clavicle was between 0.9 and 2.2 cm in comparison to the contralateral clavicle.
All patients underwent an extension osteotomy of the clavicle with interposition of an autogenous iliac crest bone graft.
The follow-up was 1 - 4 years postoperatively.
The functional outcome was evaluated using the Constant-Murley and the UCLA score.
All patients had immediate pain relief following osteotomy and correction of the deformity.
The shoulder function rapidly improved, and the functional outcome was good in three out of the four patients.
If there is associated functional impairment in malunited clavicular fractures, extension osteotomy combined with autogenous bone grafting may produce predictably good results.
As the importance of laparoscopic surgery for benign diseases of the gastrointestinal tract continues to grow, the application of this approach in cases of malignancy remains controversial.
Although the concept of cancer recurrence in the area of surgical wounds is not new, the incidence of port site recurrence is the most obvious concern.
Indications and contraindications for surgery as well as a standardized nomenclature describing the type of laparoscopic procedures being performed are some other issues that need to be clarified.
Complete laparoscopic procedures or the combination of laparoscopy with open techniques can offer advantages and disadvantages that surgeons will have to take into consideration when making decisions.
The skill of the operating team and the extent of disease define the boundaries of laparoscopic surgery possible.
The continued research as well as development of intelligent instruments and standardized techniques might give laparoscopy a clear role in the treatment of abdominal malignancies.
Background: The mechanical stabilization of the cornea in keratoconus may delay progression of this disease.
The cross-linking techniques optimized in corneas of enucleated porcine eyes were investigated under in vivo conditions in rabbits to estimate the biocompatibility and duration of the stiffening effect.
In the biopsy material of a polypoid intrabronchial lesion of a 54-year-old male patient with radiologically established lung tumor, spindle-cell neoplasia was seen.
No clear histogenetic classification of the submucous tumor process was possible.
After resection of the right upper lobe of the lung, including the results of additional immunohistochemical analyses, the tumor was classified as biphasic synovial sarcoma.
This was suggested mostly by immunohistochemical detection of the epithelial membrane antigene (EMA) and of vimentin.
Extensive clinical examinations ruled out the possibility of a primary tumor with extrapulmonary localization.
This case report shows the problems faced in correctly classifying the histogenesis or the direction of differentiation in extremely rare cases of primary pulmonary synovial sarcoma.
Especially in small biopsy samples showing a submucous spindle-cell tumor of the lung, apart from frequent sarcoma metastases, the presence of primary synovial sarcoma of the lung has to be considered in the differential diagnosis.
Necrotizing pancreatitis is still associated with considerable morbidity and mortality.
Formerly, surgical treatment with early and extensive pancreatic resection has been the standard.
Improvements in our understanding of the pathogenesis of the disease and progress in the field of intensive care therapy have made conservative therapy the initial standard in the treatment of necrotizing pancreatitis.
A considerable percentage of patients with sterile necrosis can be managed with low morbidity and mortality by conservative treatment without operation.
Nevertheless, surgical treatment is indicated in patients with infected necrosis and in sterile necrosis if multiorgan failure persists over a limited period of time despite maximum intensive care therapy.
Pancreatic resection should be abandoned for surgical treatment of pancreatic necrosis, as results with regard to morbidity, mortality and long-term outcome are unsatisfactory.
Today the surgical standard is careful digital necrosectomy, which must be followed by either postoperatve drainage, repeated open lavage or continuous closed lavage.
In experienced hands, all three procedures provide similar results with regard to morbidity and mortality.
The aim of quality management in rheumatology is to improve care and outcome in patients with rheumatic diseases.
This can be achieved by means of prospective long-term observation of the patient with regular documentation of clinical, radiological, biochemical and functional data using certain validated scoring methods (DAS, radiological score, ADL score Hanover or Health assessment questionnaire, SF36, etc.).
Long-term observation and documentation including radiographs have been performed in the rheumatology hospital in Ratingen for 20 years without even knowing the term quality management.
Quality management in a hospital for rheumatic diseases begins with certain structural prerequisites: possibility of direct admission of a patient to the hospital by the family physician, outpatient clinic to investigate and to follow patients over a long period of time, multidisciplinary team with specialists in rheumatology, orthopedic surgery, physiotherapy, ergotherapy, special care, psychological, and social services, close cooperation with specialists in neurology, dermatology, ophthalmology, etc., department of radiology, special laboratory, facilities for internal diagnostics and treatment.
The hospital needs a training program for the qualification of rheumatologists and orthopaedic surgeons.
The hospital staff should closely cooperate with the doctors in private practice who admit patients and should continously support patient organizations.
The quality of outcome is influenced by the process quality which depends on the following factors: selection, training and motivation of the hospital staff; supervision of clinical assessment and documentation by senior physicians, daily x-ray demonstrations and case reports, interdisciplinary case demonstrations at least every week in addition to daily consultation, team reports, regular education including review of actual literature for physicians, education programs exchanging knowledge with physiotherapists and nurses, and regular education programs for patients.
Process quality can only be achieved by an interdisciplinary approach and regular communication between all participants including the patient, whose opinion must be noted and regarded.
As far as possible, the same doctor who treats the patient in the hospital should follow her/him in the outpatient clinic.
The quality of outcome can be improved by regular reinvestigation of the patient with control of medication, side effects, efficacy, documentation of clinical, biochemical, radiological, and functional data.
Decisions for further treatment have to be based on these follow-up data.
A standardized follow up and documentation system for all rheumatology units with prompt feedback could definitely improve the quality of rheumatologic care in Germany.
Two children on chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukemia (AML) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) had initially focal, then generalized seizures of short duration.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) revealed in one case minor parietal, cortical and subcortical increased signal on T2-weighted images.
In a second case extended supratentorial lesions and additional signal changes in the cerebellum were found.
Although chemotherapy was continued, a few days later signal changes were considerably reduced or had disappeared.
We consider these lesions to be seizure induced in a brain previously sensitized by chemotherapy.
Hydatid disease is caused by the parasitic tapeworm Echinococcus.
The larval stage of this parasite can thrive in many parts of the body, most frequently in the liver.
Primary bone location is very rare, accounting for less than 2 % of all hydatid lesions.
We report on a case of left-sided extended pelvic infestation.
The destruction of the hip joint, os pubis, large parts of the ileum and the femoral head made pelvic resection and prosthetic replacement necessary.
Recurrence of a hydatid cyst 5 years later in the left groin originating from the proximal femur was treated with second femoral resection and new total hip replacement.
Because of instability, the primarily inserted polyacetal pelvic replacement had to be exchanged for a custom-made device fabricated with the aid of computer-aided design (CAD) techniques.
This surgical procedure was combined with chemotherapy (mebendazole).
The necessity of radical resection in osseus hydatid disease is discussed.
At present, phosphodiesterase III inhibitors are commonly used for the treatment of low cardiac output states.
Despite their positive inotropic and lusitropic effects, these drugs are still under discussion because of certain adverse effects like thrombopaenia, elevation of transaminases, abdominal disregulation, and excessive periphereal vasodilatation.
As a consequence, more cardioselective phosphodiesterase inhibitors were developed with the aim of reducing these adverse effects.
One of them, enoximone (Marion Merrell Dow, Fig.
1), an imidazole derivative, has nearly no influence on platelets and abdominal organ function.
In addition, in many studies vasodilatation was found to be absent.
Recently a new substance, R80122 (Janssen, Belgium, Fig.
1), was developed.
First experimental studies showed high cardioselectivity of this substance.
The aim of this study was to compare the haemodynamic effects of enoximone and R80122 in patients with ischaemic heart disease.
The extremely rare finding of a proximal radio-ulnar synostosis in a 5 years-old girl with a fetal alcohol syndrome is presented.
Despite the elbow's being fixed at 30  ° pronation, the patient exhibits good ipsilateral arm function.
The difficulties in differential diagnosis and treatment modalities are discussed.
Ischemic preconditioning (IP), using one or more brief periods of ischemia before a sustained ische- mia, represents a new approach in reducing ischemia-induced skeletal muscle damage.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of IP on skeletal muscle function after 3 h ischemia and 2 h reperfusion in a rodent model.
IP protocols using one, two, or three preconditioning cycles of 10 min ischemia and 10 min reperfusion each, were compared to non-preconditioned controls.
IP was found to significantly improve force, performance, endurance, and contractility of postischemic skeletal muscle.
The efficacy of IP- induced protection was correlated with the number of preconditioning cycles.
Preconditioning with three cycles resulted in a more effective protection as compared to one or two cycles.
Altogether, this study describes the efficacy of IP in improving post-ischemic muscle function and the need of more than one IP cycle to achieve this improvement.
The respective clinical potential warrants further exploration.
Pachyonychia congenita (PC) is a rare ectodermal dysplasia with variable expression.
The condition is usually inherited as an autosomal dominant trait.
Several classifications of PC have been proposed.
Feinstein and colleagues suggested four clinical types of PC.
Type II, the Jackson-Lawler-Syndrome, is characterized by multiple epidermal cysts, palmoplantar bullae and hyperhidrosis as well as natal teeth in addition to the main findings of pachyonychia, palmoplantar hyperkeratosis and follicular keratosis.
We report two patients (father and son) with Jackson-Lawler-Syndrome and describe in detail pathogenesis, diagnostic criteria and treatment approaches as well as the different classifications of pachyonychia congenita.
Aim of this review article was to critically analyse the recently described zytogenetic and molecular markers for testicular germ cell tumors with regard to their clinical utility.
The isochromosome i(12p) represents the most common and characteristic cytogenetic finding which already appears in testicular carcinoma in situ.
A number of proto - oncogenes (Cyclin D and PTHLH) as well as putative tumor suppressor genes are localized on 12p; however, their role in pathogenesis and prognosis of testicular germ cell tumors has not been defined yet.
Clinical characteristics of patients with familial testicular germ cell tumors indicate a genetic background for the development of testicular tumors.
Although a number of chromsomal loci encoding potential testicular tumor susceptibility genes have been identified, the genetic basis of testicular cancer pathogenesis is still unknown.
With regard to molecular prognostic risk factors most of the reported data on proliferation markers, tumor suppressor genes, proteases and adhesion molecules have to be confirmed in prospective randomized trials prior to their widespread clinical use.
Based on the available data on prospective studies percentage of embryonal carcinoma and vascular invasion appear to be the most significant prognosticators.
Investigation and identification of those factors determining the aggressive biologic behavior of embryonal carcinoma compared to all other histological components appear to be most promising in research for prognosticators of metastatic disease.
After laparoscopic cholecystectomy, carbon dioxide (CO2) must be exhaled after resorption from the abdominal cavity.
There is controversy about the amount and relevance of postoperative CO2 resorption.
Without continuous postoperative monitoring, after laparoscopic cholecystectomy a certain risk may consist in unnoticed hypercapnia due to CO2 resorption.
Studies exist on the course of end-expiratory CO2 (PeCO2) alone over a longer postoperative period of time in extubated patients during spontaneous breathing.
The goal of this prospective study was to investigate the amount of CO2 resorbed from the abdominal cavity in the postoperative period by means of CO2 metabolism.
After giving informed consent to the study, which was approved by the local ethics committee, 20 patients underwent laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
All patients received general endotracheal anaesthesia.
After induction, total IV anaesthesia was maintained using fentanyl, propofol, and atracurium.
Patients were ventilated with oxygen in air (FiO2 0.4).
The intraabdominal pressure during the surgical procedure ranged from 12 to 14 mm Hg.
Thirty minutes after releasing the capnoperitoneum (KP), CO2 elimination (V.CO2), oxygen uptake (V.O2), and respiratory quotient (RQ) were measured every minute for 1 h by indirect calorimetry using the metabolic monitor Deltatrac according to the principle of Canopy.
Assuming an unchanged metabolism, the CO2 resorption (V.CO2) at any given time (t) can be calculated from V.CO2 (t)=V.CO2 (t)-RQ (preop) V.O2 (t).
It was thus necessary to define the patient's metabolism on the day of operation.
The first data were collected before surgery and after introduction of the arterial and venous cannulae for a 15-min period.
Measuring point 0 was determined after exsufflation of the KP and emptying of the remaining CO2 via manual compression by the surgeon at the end of surgery.
Patient's tracheas were extubated and metabolic monitoring started 30 min after release of the KP for 60 min.
Simultaneously, a nasal side-stream capnometry probe was placed and the PeCO2 and respiratory frequency (RF) were obtained by the Capnomac Ultima (Datex) and registered every minute as well.
Values were averaged over four periods of 15 min each.
An arterial blood gas sample was drawn at the end of every 15-min period.
Postoperative pain was scored by a visual analog scale and completed by a subjective index questionnaire on general well-being.
All data were analysed by the Friedman or Wilcoxon test; P<0.05 was considered significant.
The findings do not indicate CO2 resorption in the postoperative period after laparoscopic cholecystectomy (Tables 2 and 3, Fig.
Arterial CO2 as well as PeCO2 were elevated postoperatively (45 mm Hg vs. 36 mm Hg intraoperatively), while V.CO2 and V.O2 were unchanged when compared to the preoperative measuring period.
The postoperative RF was comparable to preoperative values.
Calculated CO2 was lower than 10 ml/min and within accuracy of measurements.
The postoperative pain index ranged between 3 and 4, and 3.75 - 15 mg piritramid was administered.
All patients feld tired immediately after the operation, but scores improved slightly at the end of the 60-min period of metabolic monitoring.
There is no significant resorption of CO2 from the abdominal cavity later than 30 min after releasing the KP.
Up to this time, any CO2 remaining in the abdominal cavity after careful emptying by the surgeon has been resorbed and exhaled.
The gene of the cyclin-dependent kinase 4 (CDK4)-inhibitor p16INK4A (CDKN2/MTS1) has been proposed as a candidate for a tumor-suppressor gene located on chromosome 9p21, a frequently deleted region in a series of human cancers including malignant melanoma.
An increasing and sometimes conflicting body of data has accumulated regarding the frequency of homozygous deletions and mutations as well as the importance of p16INK4A in malignant melanoma.
The purpose of this review is therefore to summarize the current knowledge on p16INK4A and to discuss its biologic significance in the pathogenesis of melanocytic tumors.
The prevalence of psychiatric symptoms and disorders in HIV-infected patients is high.
The differential diagnosis includes psychoreactive disorders, acute psychiatric symptoms of an HIV-associated encephalopathy, and symptomatic psychotic illnesses due to secondary neurologic manifestations such as opportunistic central nervous infections and intracerebral lymphoma.
Clinical aspects and psychopathological findings are not sufficient for differential diagnosis and identification of primarily psychiatric disorders.
Secondary neurologic manifestations causing a symptomatic psychosis must be excluded as soon as possible by brain imaging (CT, MRI) and analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid.
In emergency situations, however, German law imposes strict regulations, especially in the case of sectioned patients.
These medical and medicolegal questions are illustrated by case reports and propositions for an effective strategy are made.
In simultaneous bilateral nerve recordings, patients with Sympathetically Maintained Pain (SMP) affecting one limb show similar sympathetic traffic in nerves supplying the affected and unaffected limb, also when the painful limb shows a marked regional autonomic (vasomotor) dysfunction.
These findings argue against the notion that SMP must be mediated by a reflex change in the pattern of sympathetic discharge.
In general, they underline the fact that autonomic effector disturbances may give little information about underlying nerve traffic.
Intraoperative transluminal angioplasty (ITA) has considerably broadened the spectrum of vascular surgical reconstruction, fulfils the requirements of minimally invasive therapy and has thus experienced a rapid development within the past few years.
Whereas the indications and clinical results have been described adequately in the literature, reports on the procedural management of ITA are rare.
One of the basic prerequisites of this method is the correct and nontraumatic implantation of the vascular access sheath at the proper location.
In the following, the technique of ortho- and retrograde sheath implantation, either through the vessel itself or through a vascular graft, is described in detail.
By respecting particular standards for sheath introduction, ischaemia time and vessel wall injury during ITA can be kept to a minimum.
The importance of the chronology of vascular reconstruction to angioplasty is also elucidated.
In addition, the advantages and disadvantages of sheath implantation compared with direct vessel puncture are demonstrated.
In spite of new developments, including intraluminal fixation of the sheath with an expandable balloon, the "ideal" angioplasty access sheath is, as yet, not available.
In several cases of lupus erythematosus (SLE, SCLE, DLE), the Koebner phenomenon could be seen in the apparently normal skin of patients following traumas, scratching effects, operation scars, contact dermatitis, pressure from sock tops, application of liquid nitrogen, exposure to strong sun light, etc.
The interval between exposure to such provocation factors and appearance of the isomorphic reactions varied from case to case.
In SLE patients receiving systemic treatment with glucocorticosteroids, the Koebner phenomenon could not be found, while it was detected in patients with generalized DLE who had never received any systemic glucocorticoid hormones.
It was not seen in patients with localized DLE.
There was no direct relationship between the appearance of humoral autoantibodies and onset of the Koebner phenomenon.
With regard to the histopathogenesis of the Koebner phenomenon, it is thought that disturbances of the local cellular repair processes and of the cytokine network, with expression of adhesion molecules, might be involved.
The Koebner phenomenon may be a valuable model for the investigation of lupus erythematosus.
In 5 years 9 patients with a total of 16 painful ear nodules (chondrodermatitis helicis) have been treated as follows.
A small excision is carried out with local anaesthesia for histological examination.
The rest of the nodule or any other nodules are carbonized by means of the argon laser, also with local anaesthesia, including the surface of the cartilage under the nodules.
There have been no cases of postoperative inflammation or infection.
New nodules occurring several months after treatment have been successfully treated in the same way.
There have been no real recurrences.
The cosmetic result is very good in all cases.
The patients are free of pain immediately after the laser therapy.
Laser therapy for painful nodules of the ear has good and lasting results, with a lower rate of recurrences than any other form of treatment.
We represent and discuss etiology, diagnosis as well as differential diagnoses of tuberculous orchtitis referring to an actual case of this rare disease.
In the least of all cases one can conclude from the clinical symptoms on the tuberculous origin of the disease.
Other differential diagnoses will set more frequently due to rarity of this disease.
Quite a lot of cases a bacterial superinfection veils the sterile leucocyturia as main characteristic of genitourinary tuberculosis.
Imaging diagnostics frequently fails to give indications of tuberculous origin of the lesion.
As before the evidence of Mycobacteria tuberculosis is the most important parameter to proof a tuberculosis.
Despite required microbiological cultivation to make a resistogram the polymerase chain reaction is a high sensitive and comparable fast method for detection of Mycobacteria even from tissue.
In such dubious cases we recommend to perform an operative denudation due to frequently difficult delimitation from malignant testicular tumours.
In surgical procedures associated with high blood loss, such as vascular and cardiac operations, differential diagnosis and therapy of perioperative hemorrhage are of special importance.
Preoperative screening for patients at high risk of bleeding and in particular for those with qualitative platelet disorders [drug-induced platelet disorders (in particular ASS), von Willebrand's disease and other congenital platelet disorders] is effective in minimizing blood loss.
Bleeding in acute medical emergencies or during emergency operations may require treatment without specific investigations being performed in advance.
Therefore, simple schemes are essential for the rapid management of acute hemostatic problems.
The aim of this paper was to address the diagnostic and therapy of hemorrhagic diathesis focusing mainly on diagnosis and therapy of hemorrhagic diathesis due to blood platelet disorders and blood coagulation disorders and preoperative identification of patients at increased risk of bleeding.
Although deep vein thrombosis now has a better prognosis than in the era before anticoagulation, a number of patients remain in whom ulcus cruris cannot be adequately controlled by conservative treatment.
The case report of a 50-year-old woman with stage III chronic venous insufficiency associated with the post-thrombotic syndrome is presented.
Progress in imaging techniques and functional diagnostics of the post-thrombotic syndrome make a reliable differentiation of the chronic venous insufficiency possible with respect to obstruction or reflux.
If conservative treatment fails, autological valve transplantation is described as a suitable reconstructive management method in the treatment of reflux.
Following this report, the results and limitations of this method are discussed.
The neurobiological alterations commonly found in affective disorders (e.g., alterations in the nocturnal sleep profile, dysfunction of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical system) gradually recover with improvement of the depressive syndrome.
Their persistence during full clinical remission, however, is associated with an increased risk for relapse and, thus may represent trait markers for affective disorders.
In order to test this hypothesis, we designed a prospective study in which healthy first-degree relatives (high-risk probands; HRPs; n=54) of patients with an affective disorder are investigated by means of polysomnography, the combined dexamethasone and corticotropine-releasing hormone (DEX-CRH) test and a variety of psychometric scales.
In the present part of the study (index assessment), these HRPs, as a group, showed depressionlike alterations in both the sleep pattern and the DEX-CRH-test outcome; furthermore, their psychometric profile was characterized by elevated scores on the scales assessing "rigidity" and "autonomic lability".
On a single-case level, 35% of the HRPs were identified as conspicuous (depressionlike) in at least two of the three areas investigated.
A decision of whether or not this "conspicuousness" indeed represents a trait marker for affective disorders can be reached when the follow-up part of the study has identified those HRPs with their respective premorbide status who have developed an affective disorder in the meantime.
Undifferentiated connective tissue disease with secondary antiphospholipid syndrome was diagnosed in a 33 year old woman after recurrent arterial thromboses, two miscarriages and myocarditis.
Despite effective immunosuppression and anticoagulation her initially mild precapillary pulmonary hypertension progressed in the absence of thromboembolic events, cardiopulmonary disease or other systemic disorders.
iloprost in a dosage of up to 4.5 ng/kg/min for a total of 15 months, her 6 min walking-distance improved from 210 to 315 m, the pulmonary vascular resistance decreased from 1710 to 1111 dynxsxcm-5 and the mean pulmonary arterial pressure decreased from 64 to 54 mmHg.
This partial success of conservative treatment enabled a reassessment of the necessity for heart and lung transplantation.
In the USA, recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) has been approved for therapy of acute ischemic stroke (AIS) within a 3 hour time window based on the results of the NINDS [1] trial.
Only few patients with AIS are referred to a hospital within three hours after onset of symptoms, and only 3% of these patients qualify for treatment with rt-PA.
Therefore, only few patients with AIS will potentially benefit from therapy with rt-PA if NINDS criteria are applied.
The goal of the Second European-Australasian Acute Stroke Study (ECASS II) was to evaluate safety and efficacy of thrombolytic therapy with rt-PA in AIS for a 6 hour time window.
Objective: To prove the response and side effects of sulphasalazine in early and late onset juvenile pauciarthritis, also the therapeutic effect dependent on the marker HLA B27.
The radiologic imaging methods play an important role in the precise staging as basic requirement for an effective concept of tumor therapy.
The accuracy of ultrasound in the primary staging according to the TNM-classification (UICC) was therefore prospectively investigated in 260 patients with head and neck tumors of the clinical stages T1N0 to T4N3.
The clinically (C1) and sonographically (C2) evaluated pretherapeutic stages were compared to the postoperative histopathologic tumor classifications.
The clinical staging was correct in 75.0 %, high in 7.7 %, low in 17.3 %, the N-stages were correct in 59.2 %, high in 17.7 %, low in 23.1 %.
The sonographic staging was apparently superior with the T-classifications correct in 92.3 %, high in 7.7 %, low 0.0 %.
The N-stages were correct in 89.6 %, high in 9.2 %, low in 1.2 %.
The accuracy of combined TN classification rose from clinical 46.5 % to 84.6 % by sonography.
Accompanying inflammations, foregoing biopsies and tooth extractions were the main reasons for incorrect staging.
Therefore, the thorough sonographic investigation performed after the clinical examination and before invasive procedures, due to little patient discomfort, good availability and high accuracy, is an excellent sectional imaging method for staging, therapy-planning and follow up of tumors of the head and neck especially of the orofacial regions.
Standardized guidelines for exercise training for patients with chronic congestive heart failure (CHF) have not been established.
In the past CHF patients involved in exercise training studies demonstrated a wide range of cardiac and functional impairment, with an ejection fraction between 18 and 35% and a peak VO2 between 12.2 and 25.4 ml/kg/min on average.
For determination of training intensity, a VO2 between 40 and 70% of peak VO2 and/or training heart rate between 60 and 80% of peak heart rate was used.
There was also a wide range for frequency (between 3 and 7 times per week) and duration of training (between 20 and 60 min per session).
For aerobic exercise training only continuous training methods were applied.
We have developed a new interval training method which allows intense exercise stimuli on peripheral muscles with minimal cardiac strain.
After only three weeks of training, the improvement in aerobic capacity was similar to that reported after longer training periods using continuous methods.
To determine work rate for work phases of interval training, a special steep ramp test was developed.
By analysis of acute physical responses to this testing procedure and to the interval training, both were proven to be tolerable in CHF patients, even if their ejection fraction is as low as 13%, or peak cardiac index not greater than 1.6 l/m2/min, and peak VO2 less than 8.5 ml/kg/min.
Therapeutic choice in laryngeal carcinoma is influenced by the nature of the tumor and a variety of factors involving the patient and physician.
Small (T1) and exophytic (T1, T2) tumors are suitable for radiotherapy.
Limited lesions (T1, T2) can be cured by functional endoscopic resection techniques or external partial laryngectomies.
Extensive tumors (large T2; T3) are treated by total laryngectomy or by primary irradiation, especially in the case of a good response to induction chemotherapy.
When radiation treatment fails, surgery succeeds in more than half of the cases.
Tumors infiltrating or transgressing the laryngeal framework (T4) can only be cured by total laryngectomy followed by radiotherapy.
Subtotal or circular ablation of the adjacent pharynx or esophagectomy needs repair with visceral or myocutaneous grafts.
Lymphatics are preferentially treated with the same modality as used in the primary disease.
Inconspicuous lymphatics should be treated electively in most cases, with the exception of early glottic cancer.
Induced hypotension is defined as a reduction in mean arterial blood pressure to 50-60 mm Hg in normotensive subjects.
The aim of induced hypotension is to decrease intraoperative blood loss, decrease the need for blood transfusions and improve operating conditions.
Most studies indicate that induced hypotension can decrease intraoperative blood loss by 50% in many surgical procedures; however, some studies report that blood loss is not significantly reduced.
Current methods of induced hypotension are based on the use of rapid and short-acting vasodilators as primary agents (nitroprusside, nitroglycerine, urapidil), supplemented by volatile anesthetics (isoflurane) and/or -blockers (esmolol) to improve effect, reduce dosage and prevent side effects (reflex tachycardia, tachyphylaxis, rebound hypertension).
Proper positioning of the patient and controlled ventilation aid in reducing blood loss.
Major risks of induced hypotension are a reduction in blood flow (i.e.
ischaemia) of vital organs (brain, myocardium) and elevation of intracranial pressure in neurosurgical patients.
Thus, major contraindications of induced hypotension are severe coronary artery disease, hypertension combined with arteriosclerosis of cerebral vessels and increased intracranial pressure in patients with cerebral disease.
Complications are rare in otherwise healthy patients, but may be higher in elderly patients and those with underlying organ dysfunction.
Therefore, careful assessment and selection of patients, together with consideration of the potential complications, appropriate choice of drugs and invasive beatby-beat monitoring, are essential for the safe practice of induced hypotension.
Abstract  Empirical results stemming from infant research have contributed extensively to the understanding of coping with psychosocial stress and vulnerability for psychosomatic symptoms in later life.
The interaction and the emotional exchange between caregiver and child in the first months of life lead to representations of interactions that will be the base for the quality of attachment.
The mutual regulation of the caregiver-infant-pair enables the child to acquire a psychic capacity to regulate physiological requirements.
This selfregulatory function determines the potential of the later adult to react to distress - in a symbolic way using words or more in a somatic way by developing psychosomatic symptoms.
First experiences with the treatment of psychosomatic patients with respect to the new findings about self-regulation are reported.
A 31-year-old pregnant woman had to undergo emergency abdominal surgery due to acute intestinal obstruction.
The patient's preoperative history demonstrated multiple allergies as well as abdominal trauma several years before.
The physical examination - including sonography of the two fetuses - showed no pathological signs.
Anaesthesia was induced intravenously with the operating table tilted to the left side, using routine precautions pre-oxygenation, and rapid sequence intubation, and was maintained unproblematically.
About 20 min after the onset of surgery, hypotension, tachycardia, and a drop in oxygen saturation appeared.
Volume substitution and the application of vasoactive drugs failed to stabilise the haemodynamic situation.
Elevation of the pregnant uterus and increased left tilzing of the operating table did not lead to improvement.
The development of eyelid edema led to the diagnosis of an anaphylactic reaction.
The patient was treated successfully with epinephrine, antihistamines, and corticosteroids (prednisolone).
The suspicion of latex-related allergy was verified postoperatively by radio-allergen-sorbent test (RAST) and prick and scratch tests.
The mean arterial blood pressure is decreased during the first two trimesters of pregnancy and increases to preconceptional values during the last weeks of gestation.
The heart rate increases during the whole course of pregnancy.
During late gestation fewer patients show an increase in diastolic blood pressure and heart rate in the standing position.
A fall in heart rate was only seen in this period.
A fall in mean arterial blood pressure during standing is not related to the blood pressure in the supine position during the whole course of pregnancy.
The hypotensive symptoms are twice as frequent during early pregnancy compared to late pregnancy.
Headaches, fatigue and cold extremities are the most usual complaints.
The frequency and intensity of these three symptoms decrease during gestation.
Blood pressure in the supine position is reduced in symptomatic pregnant women.
However, the occurrence of these symptoms is not correlated to the fall in blood pressure in the standing position.
The Birth-weight is not influenced by blood pressure in the supine position, but depends on the fall in blood pressure during standing.
Pregnant women with a more pronounced fall in blood pressure give birth to newborns with a lower birthweight.
These results imply a hitherto unknown cause of intrauterine growth restriction.
The combination of saltwater baths and subsequent ultraviolet irradiation is an effective treatment for psoriasis and atopic dermatitis.
The aim of the present study was to determine the photosensitizing properties of two commercially available bath salts, original salt from the Dead Sea and sodium chloride.
To address this issue, test areas on the volar aspects of the forearms were soaked with salt solutions for 15 minutes prior to ultraviolet-B (UVB) irradiation.
The salt concentrations tested were 1%, 3% 5% and 15%.
Tap water followed by UVB and UVB alone served as controls.
Erythema was determined by visual and photometric measurement, and delayed tanning was assessed by colorimetry.
Erythema obtained by wetting the skin prior to UVB irradiation was more pronounced than erythema induced by UVB alone.
The most prominent erythema was yielded by tap water+UVB.
The salts had a differing photosensitizing capacity and the strongest erythema was produced by the 5% solutions.
There was only a moderate influence on delayed tanning by bathing the skin prior to irradiation.
The results from the present study indicate that soaking the skin with salt solutions or tap water increases skin sensitivity to subsequent UVB irradiation.
This may contribute to the effectiveness of salt water baths followed by UV irradiation and may account for an increased sunburn risk after bathing.
Introduction: The aim of the study was to evaluate the modern principles of surgery in diverticulitis, e. g. early elective resection and primary anastomosis.
Methods: The data of 445 consecutive patients were retrospectively analysed after classifying all cases in four subgroups according to a modified Hinchey classification (stages 0-III).
Results: Within our study group the morbidity was 26.5 % (n = 118) and the mortality was 1.6 % (n = 7).
In 96 % (n = 425) of all cases and in 64 % (21/33) of patients with perforated diverticulitis and peritonitis (stage III), a primary anastomosis was performed.
Four patients of the study group showed insufficient anastomosis (0.9 %).
No leakage was observed from any of the anastomoses performed in stage III diverticulitis.
Stage of inflammation and age of patient correlate with morbidity and mortality.
Some 53 % (94/177) of the patients in stage II and 67 % (22/33) of the patients in stage III had never showed symptoms of diverticulitis before.
Conclusion: Prophylactic surgery to avoid life-threatening situations, including abscess formation or perforation, is not possible in many cases.
However, especially patients at risk (age, coexisting illness) should undergo early surgery.
Primary anastomosis can be performed safely even at an advanced stage.
To evaluate whether MRI is usefull in staging renal cell carcinomas with caval thrombus the accuracy of computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in staging renal tumors with caval thrombus were preoperatively examined.
Tumor staging by CT and MR imaging were correlated with histopathological tumor stadium.
In MRI 4 out of 7 thrombi were correctly diagnosed with high accuracy, in CT none.
In advanced renal carcinoma MRI with Gadolinium was superior to CT imaging, especially in diagnosing tumor thrombus.
Consequently the extent of tumor thrombus may be assessed by MRI which therefore may replace conventional cavography.
Children of mothers chronically infected with hepatitis-C-virus (HCV) during pregnancy and delivery were prospectively followed.
90 children born to 85 infected mothers were included in our study; nine of the mothers were known to be co-infected with HIV-1.
These 90 children were first tested within 60 days after birth and followed for at least three months.
Three of the 90 children became infected perinatally with HCV as shown by persistence of antibodies after 2 years of life and a positive result in the RT-PCR.
One of these 3 children has evidence of ongoing hepatitis as shown by slightly elevated alanine aminotransferase values, but is otherwise clinically well, likewise the other 2 infected children.
54 of the 87 uninfected children were followed until they lost maternal antibodies after an average of one year.
Cor triatriatum dexter is a rare congenital malformation in which a membrane divides the right atrium into two chambers.
The membrane represents a persistence of the right sinus venosus valve (RSV).
Normally the RSV regresses between the 9th and 15th week of gestation, as the cephalic portion forms the crista terminalis and the caudal portion develops into the Eustachian and Thebesian valve.
Any failure in the regression process may result in remnants of RSV as a simple muscle bar, a Chiari-network or a fenestrated or unfenestrated membrane (cor triatriatum dexter).
We describe a patient with cor triatriatum dexter in whom diagnosis was made several years after successful valvulotomy procedure for severe congenital valvular pulmonary stenosis.
Apoptosis and proliferation are important regulators of normal development and homeostasis in the bone marrow.
Therefore, dynamics of hematopoiesis is mainly defined by these two parameters.
However, since only few data are available from previous studies, we performed a retrospective analysis to elucidate some aspects of this complex pathomechanism.
A total of 400 patients with chronic myeloproliferative disorders (CMPDs) and corresponding reactive bone marrow lesions were enrolled into this study.
Apoptosis was detected in bone marrow tissue by the ISEL-technique and topoisomerase II  expression was demonstrated by the monoclonal antibody Ki-S1.
Furthermore, by determination of the proliferating-cell nuclear antigen labeling (PCNA) index, we were able to calculate the proportion of cells in the G2/M phase, because both nuclear antigens are expressed in different phases of the cell cycle.
Patients with IMF, PV, and ET revealed a normal range of apoptosis, whereas in chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) a significant increase could be observed.
On the other hand, IMF and PV were characterized by a raised proliferative activity.
Dynamics of hematopoiesis was assessed by calculation of the so called hematopoietic turnover index.
In CML and reactive lesions no alterations of this parameter were detectable, but IMF and PV showed a significant increase.
Survival analysis disclosed a relevant worsening of life expectancy for patients with reduced apoptosis and proliferation.
In conclusion, our in-situ results confirm and extend previous experimental data on hematopoietic cell kinetics.
In this context, a greater regenerative capacity of hematopoiesis may be reflected by an increased rate of apoptosis and/or proliferation and therefore is associated with a more favorable outcome.
In a complex animal model in sheep, polydioxanone (PDS) and polylactic membranes were used for the reconstruction of large orbital-wall defects.
In a long-term experiment over 1 year, polylactic implants alone showed the best performance as compared with combinations involving autogenous bone grafts and titanium miniplate fixation.
As soon as these polylactic implants are approved for human surgery, they will be used to solve the still challenging problem of anatomical reconstruction of large comminuted fractures of more than one orbital wall.
Surgery by three-dimensional (3D) endoscopy is being used routinely in abdominal surgery and, in special cases, in thoracic surgery; however, it has not been reported as being used in microlaryngeal surgery.
We inserted a 3-D endoscope into a jet laryngoscope and studied the pressure properties at the tip of the laryngoscope as well as intrapulmonary pressures while applying superimposed high-frequency jet ventilation.
The studies were conducted initially using a lung simulator, and then in seven patients undergoing microlaryngeal surgery.
Due to the rather large 3-D endoscope, the diameter of the jet laryngoscope was reduced by between 25.2% and 70.9%, depending on its size.
The measurements on the lung simulator revealed that reduction of laryngoscope diameter leads to an increase in the following parameters: expiratory resistance, tidal volume, and peak inspiratory pressure.
The mean FiO2 was 0.74 +/- 0.1; the mean paO2 was 169.2 +/- 80.4 mm Hg; and the mean paCO2 was 40.9 +/- 2.4 mm Hg.
The mean airway pressure was 19 +/- 5.3 mm Hg prior to insertion of the endoscope and 12.3 +/- 6.9 mm Hg after insertion.
The mean positive end-expiratory pressure values increased from 2 +/- 0.6 to 3.6 +/- 2.3 mm Hg.
Reduction of the working pressure resulted in restoration of the initial inspiratory pressures and tidal volumes.
In the clinical application of 3-D endoscopy via a jet laryngoscope, it was possible to achieve sufficient ventilation, inspection of the surgical field, and performance of the surgical procedure.
A CO2 laser was used without changing the ventilation regime.
Although technical alterations would be desirable for its application to microlaryngeal surgery, it is presently possible to safely use the 3-D endoscope via the jet laryngoscope for microlaryngeal surgery, presenting the surgeon with new possibilities in voice-improving microsurgery of the larynx.
Kryopreserved specimens of cystic ducts were used for displacement tests to investigate the security of different laparoscopic clips.
The cystic duct was fixed, and the transverse placed clips were distracted in axial direction and the forces registered.
The median values of the six investigated clips ranged between 4.1 N and 11.2 N with a highly significant difference (P < 0.001, Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA).
In detail, both resorbable clips (polydioxanone, polyglyconate/polyglycol acetate) were superior to the four titanium clips (P < 0.005, Wilcoxon test).
In addition to the advantage of complete biodegradibility, these data favour the use of absorbable clips because holding force is better than that of titanium clips.
Hemoglobin solutions and fluorocarbon emulsions are evaluated as artificial oxygen carriers.
The efficacy of hemoglobin solutions with respect to O2 transport and especially the effective O2 release to tissues has been demonstrated in a number of situations, such as extreme hemodilution and hemorrhagic shock.
The hemoglobin molecule could be stabilized by genetic and chemical modifications.
This results in a clinically utilizable intravascular half-life of about 8-24 h, an adequate O2 affinity, and a lack of nephrotoxicity.
A degree of vasoconstriction must be mentioned as the persistent side effect of the hemoglobin solutions evaluated here.
In spite of this, hemoglobin solutions are also well tolerated in humans.
Fluorocarbon emulsions are compounds with a very high gas solubility and are, therefore, well suited for the transport of O2 and CO2.
The capacity for the release of O2 to the tissues is especially excellent.
This was demonstrated under extreme hemodilution, during extracorporeal circulation and also under reanimation.
Perflubron, the most important representative of the fluorocarbon emulsions, has also been successfully used in man and is well tolerated.
The introduction of artificial oxygen carriers to clinical practice will greatly change transfusion medicine and also the acute care of trauma patients.
Launch is expected within the next few years.
The new volatile anaesthetic desflurane is characterized by very low blood-gas and tissue-blood partition coefficients, so that rapid induction of anaesthesia and shorter recovery times can be expected.
The aim of this investigation was to compare the effects of desflurane and isoflurane on haemodynamics and recovery time when used as part of a balanced anaesthesia technique for elective surgery.
In acute coronary syndromes, arteriosclerotic plaques are characterized by inflammation and decreased smooth muscle cell density.
The underlying pathogenic processes remain unclear.
Among others, increased programmed cell death (apoptosis) is postulated.
Coronary atherectomy specimens from 26 patients with unstable angina (group 1) and from 24 patients with stable angina (group 2) were examined, using immunohistochemistry (TUNEL test to detect fragmented DNA) and transmission electron microscopy.
The objectives of the present study were to evaluate plaque group differences in the cellular composition, to detect and quantify cell death, and to diferentiate between apoptosis and necrosis.
On occasion of the 100th anniversary of heart surgery we present in this article the first successful experimental open heart operations in Russia in the years from 1926 to 1937.
These operations on the stationary heart were carried out by using the first device for extracorporeal circulation.
This work pioneered by Russian scientist S. Brukhonenko and the Surgeon N. Terebinski is nearly unknown to the medical public.
The first and largest series at the time worldwide of more than 260 operations on the valves of the open heart, the still valid prophylactic procedure to avoid air embolism, and principles of open heart surgery stated by N. Terebinski were decades ahead of the development at the time.
In the authors' opinion they represent a milestone in the history of open heart surgery.
Aneurysms of the temporal part of the carotid artery are unusually rare.
The literature contains only a few previous reports dealing with hemorrhage from such malformations.
In the present case massive bleeding occurred from a right-sided intrapetrous aneurym after myringotomy, which was performed as treatment for bilateral secretory otitis media.
Due to the absence of any specific symptoms and the masking effect of middle ear glue preoperative identification of the aneurysm was not possible.
Subsequent angiography showed the large fusiform extension of the intrapetrous aneurysm as well as multiple intracranial aneurysms.
Leakage from the aneurism was closed definitively with muscle, fascia lata and a gelatin-resorcin-formalin-glue (Cardial).
In order to apply the tissue patch the hypotympanic site of the aneurism was exposed using a posterior otosurgical approach.
Due to extensive intracranial collateralization to the vertebral arteries bleeding persisted even after ligation of both carotid arteries.
Temporary cardiac asystole was then induced to allow safe closure of the aneurysm.
Following surgery the patient sustained loss of hearing in her ear and a partial peripheral facial palsy.
Blindness causes human suffering and high social costs.
Virtually all blind people are registered with the social services.
Data from these institutions may help in (long-term) planning for blindness prevention.
The stage-oriented treatment of stem varicosis is the operation method of choice.
Nowadays, partial stem varicosis, which is an earlier stage of the disease, leads to operative treatment more frequently than 10 years ago; thus a sufficient vein stump remains after surgical treatment.
After surgery on a group of 1000 patients, we examined the stumps for patency, the occurrence of varicose changes, for their availability in the long term, and the sufficiency of their length for aortocoronary or peripheral bypass surgery.
The treatment of insufficient perforant veins was also included in the surgical therapy, as well as postoperative sclerotherapy of remaining lateral veins.
With a follow-up period of up to 33 months postoperatively, the results show a high patency rate in the remaining stumps (97%), as well as a high sufficiency rate (94%), with a mean graft length of 29.4 cm.
Thus these stumps constitute a good natural graft for future vascular reconstructions.
This study supports the call for the stage-oriented surgical treatment of stem varicosis.
Background: Corneal HLA-DR antigens are going to be lost during organ culture storage.
This study investigated if this phenomenon is based on down-regulation of the HLA-DR antigen, or on a loss of the HLA-DR-positive corneal Langerhans cells (LCs).
The authors present a rare case of solitary non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) in the skull of an 11-year-old girl.
The clinical, radiological and histological findings as well as a review of the literature are included in this report.
The morphological features of intra- and extracerebral tumor masses and the change in tumor extension due to chemotherapy and radiation therapy were evaluated with magnetic resonance imaging.
Although rare, NHL should be considered in the differential diagnosis of skull tumors in children.
Neurodegenerative and dementing disorders such as Parkinson disease and Alzheimer disease are among the most common diseases of advanced age.
Despite progress in the clinical diagnosis of neurodegenerative disorders, definite diagnosis for most of these disorders is still possible only by neuropathological examination of the brain.
The neuropathological diagnosis and classification of neurodegenerative disorders has made clear advances in recent years, particularly due to the results of genetic and biochemical studies, resulting in the development of new disease-specific antibodies.
Internationally recognized consensus criteria for most neurodegenerative disorders allow a definite and standardized diagnosis to be made.
To obtain further knowledge about the etiopathogenesis, particularly with regard to new therapeutic strategies, studies with clinically and neuropathologically well-documented cases are needed.
The project "Brain-Net" has therefore been established with the aim of setting up a German Brain and Tissue Bank for Diseases of the Central Nervous System.
The project is funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research.
Fetal surgery is defined as the intrauterine surgical correction of malformations that endanger the unborn child's life in prenatal stages of development or lead to death or severe damage of the child postnatally.
Such surgery is a clinical reality now.
Indications for intrataurine surgical procedures also exist for head and neck abnormalities, especially in the upper respiratory tract.
These include exposure and temporary obstruction of the fetal trachea for correction of pulmonary hypoplasia in cases with congenital diaphragmatic hernias, prenatal tracheotomy in cases of laryngeal atresia for the correction of lethal pulmonary overdistension, and resection of embryonic tumors that obstruct the respiratory tract.
The relatively high surgical risk resulting in particular from preterm labor occurring postoperatively may be reduced by employing minimally invasive techniques.
Endoscopic procedures render opening of the uterus unnecessary and are of particular importance.
In part of the procedures, only endoscopic surgery has led to therapeutic success rates justifying its clinical use.
Further reduction of the operative risk suggests prenatal interventions, even in cases with non-lethal conditions.
More diseases of the head and neck may thus be included in the spectrum of indications.
One example is prenatal correction of a cleft lip and palate, which until now has only been performed in animal experiments.
The particular characteristics of fetal wound healing allow this to take place without scarring up to a certain stage in pregnancy.
This offers the prospect of a surgical correction that is invisible externally and avoids growth-impeding scars.
The particular ethical and legal aspects of fetal surgery are discussed.
We report on a 57-year-old patient suffering from a complex malposition of proximal femur after osteosynthesis using a condylar plate.
For polyaxial correction of the proximal femur we successfully used an intramedullary hip screw system.
In 6 patients with primary malignant bone tumors (4 Ewing, 1 recurrent Adamantinoma, 1 maligne Haemangioperizytoma) the local therapy was performed as intraoperative extracorporeal irradiation and replantation.
During the follow-up 10 (6-24) months no local recurrence in the replanted segment occurred.
One recurrence occurred in the host bed; in two cases the replanted segment had to be removed because of severe infection.
The other cases showed good functional and radiological results.
These clinical findings and the reports in the literature seem to allow the application of the intraoperative extracorporeal irradiation and replantation procedure for defect reconstruction in cases of chemo- and radiotherapy-sensitive bone tumors.
Effects of anaesthesia and analgesia on postoperative morbidity and mortality remain controversial.
Numerous studies have demonstrated that epidural anaesthesia and pain relief by epidural analgesia reduces perioperative stress responses and thus may reduce postoperative morbidity and mortality.
In patients undergoing vascular surgery, epidural anaesthesia diminished postoperative hypercoagulability.
These patients may benefit from less thromboembolic complications as well as a reduced risk of a re-operation.
However, regional anaesthesia does not affect cardiopulmonary morbidity or overall mortality significantly in most clinical studies.
One reason for this disappointing finding may be the missing integration of improved postoperative pain relief into general surgical care.
A multimodal therapeutic approach, which consists of preoperativ patient information, sufficient analgesia, early mobilisation and enteral feeding, may solve this discrepancy.
Therefore, prospective controlled studies are needed to assess the influence of this perioperative approach on outcome.
Although cerebrovascular diseases are the most common causes of dementia after Alzheimer's desease, vascular dementia (VD) has remained so far an ill-defined term.
The main problems in the definition of VD arise from finding criteria for both terms "vascular" and "dementia".
The detailed criteria for the diagnosis of VD proposed by several groups or institutions (ADDTC, DSM-IV, ICD-10, NINDS-ARIEN) are critically reviewed.
The diagnostic value of some clinical findings, especially the very frequent white matter luciencies in CT (leuko-araiosis), are discussed.
The available studies suggest a differentiation of VD into some subtypes (listed according to frequency): subcortical VD, VD with acute onset, multiinfarct-dementia, mixed types, and specific forms.
Nevertheless, these subtypes give only little information about the etiology of the underlying vascular process and, therefore, no clear indication for specific therapeutic strategies.
The aetiology of varicosis is still unclear.
Investigation of changes in normal veins which result in the formation of varicosis led to examination of elastic properties and histomorphological alterations in the region of the extracellular matrix in the vessel wall of the long saphenous vein in normal and varicose veins.
The rigidity of varicose veins was higher than that of normal veins; there was no difference between the varicose vein above a competent valve and the "normal" vein below this competent valve.
The matrix proteins demonstrated an increase in total fibres, whereas the elastic fibres were reduced and fragmented, explained the rigidity of varices.
These results suggest that the role of the venous valves in the development of varicose veins is secondary to changes of the vein wall.
An investigation of 122 knee joints was performed concerning the incidence and morphological characteristics of the meniscofemoral ligaments (MFL) Humphry and Wrisberg.
Of the knees examined, 96% showed one or more ligaments, the incidence was independent of gender or age.
The osseous parameters of the dorsal and ventral notch as well as the diacondylar width did not correlate with the incidence of MFL.
The ventral notch width index (NWI) after Souryal was 0.22 in females and 0.24 in males.
A dorsal notch width index (dNWI), which has not been described so far, was 0.26 in females and 0.28 in males.
The ligamentum meniscofemorale posterius (Wrisberg) showed distinct morphological variations.
This resulted in a classification of type I-III.
The results of the study underline the importance of the MFL for knee joint function including stabilization, proprioception, and meniscal positioning.
Eleven patients with high-grade mucosal dysplasia in a columnar-lined oesophagus and 2 patients with a squamous carcinoma (uT1) underwent photodynamic therapy (PDT) and argon-plasma coagulation (APC).
For PDT, 5-aminolevulinic acid (5-ALA) was given orally (60 mg/kg) and treated endoscopically with a light dose of 150 J/cm2 (100 mW/cm2) at 635 nm 4-6 h later.
A second PDT was performed under the same conditions 2-3 weeks later.
Patients who received APC were treated 4 times on average to reach radical Barrett mucosa eradication.
All patients were consistently given medication to suppress acid production.
No complications occurred in either group.
Follow-up endoscopies and multiple biopsies for 3-42 months showed squamous regeneration in the dysplastic columnar-lined oesophagus in all 11 patients.
Two patients with squamous carcinoma were found to have a recurrence 9 and 12 months later.
PDT with 5-ALA-induced endogenous porphyrins, as well as APC combined with omeprazole protection, can eradicate superficial high-grade dysplastic mucosa in Barrett's oesophagus.
However, we did not succeed in destroying a manifest carcinoma.
Technical advantages of spiral technology are of great usefulness in diagnostic imaging of thorax and abdomen in children.
The rapid imaging time allows the examination of an entire organ while scanning with breath holding or while the child is quietly breathing, resulting in a decreased need for sedation.
In addition especially examinations of the chest an to some extend CT-investigations of the abdomen are performed with reduced radiation dose achieved by reducing the tube loading.
Radiation dose reduction of 70% is possible without loss of relevant diagnostic information.
Spiral low-dose CT in pediatric chest imaging is useful in evaluating parenchymal lung diseases, mediastinal masses and central airway malformations.
Whether abdominal helical CT can be replaced by MRI has to be decided in each individual case.
When an exact protocol is used, sufficient contrast material given, scan-delay optimized and postprocessing reconstructions are performed, usefull additional diagnostic informations are obtained by the method.
Invasive monitoring is a standard procedure in modern intensive care medicine.
Despite significant progress in the routine use and catheter technology, there are relevant remaining risks concerning acute central venous and arterial access and chronic persistence of catheters within the vascular lumen.
Resulting from the infectiologically established novel definition of antiseptic which contains the local application of antiseptics for prophylactical, preventive or therapeutical indication on skin, mucous membrane, wounds, in body cavities or on surgical exposed resp.
opened endosomatic areas the antiseptical indications in a branch of dermatology and venereal diseases are represented.
With the analysis of the actual knowledge in vitro and in vivo requirements to local antiinfectiva are defined combined with the recommendations for the clinical use.
At present mainly prophylactically used agents are submitted to a benefit risk analysis with refer to the choice of agents.
Thereby agents for the application on skin as well as on genitals, in mouth cavity and on wounds were taken into consideration.
Hydatid disease, still frequent in endemic areas, is usually localized in the liver.
Despite the benign nature of the disease it is one of the problematic fields of surgery due to the high complication rate and long hospital stay.
Based on our experience we recommend evacuation of the cyst and omentoplasty as the surgical method of choice, as it is associated with a relatively low incidence of complications and can be performed easily.
Background: Central catheters in neonatological intensive care patients are used for the prolonged application of medicataion or parenteral infusions.
Dislocations and septic and thromboembolic complications may occur.
Low density lipoproteins are heterogeneous in particle size, density, and physical as well as chemical properties.
Regarding size and density, LDL can be divided into two main profiles, LDL pattern A with elevated concentration of large, buoyant LDL particles and LDL pattern B with increased concentration of small, dense LDL particles.
The latter is particularly expressed in insulin resistance and is associated with elevated serum triglycerides and reduced concentrations of HDL and particularly HDL2 cholesterol.
The LDL profile of increased concentration of small, dense LDL particles has shown to be associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events.
The LDL profile is partly genetically determined, but can be improved by non-pharmacological (exercise, diet) and pharmacological intervention.
It remains to be confirmed whether the LDL subfraction profile is an independent lipid risk factor besides HDL2 cholesterol and triglycerides, but it is certainly a valuable indicator assessing metabolic cardiovascular risk.
Traumatic injuries of arteries lead to acute bleeding or ischemia.
In the hand, which is perfused by two arteries, this symptom could be missed.
The hypothenar hammer syndrome is a traumatic occlusion of the distal arteria ulnaris.
Dependent on the mechanism of the trauma the clinical symptoms may appear late.
A specific angiographic or duplex sonographic diagnostic investigation is necessary to show the arterial occlusion.
There is no proven therapeutic procedure.
Exact diagnosis of the occlusion as an effect of the trauma is important for the patient and is the basis of any therapeutic intervention.
The administration of epidural opioids is alternatively used in the management of postoperative analgesia.
However, the administration is associated with side effects, including respiratory depression, somnolence and pruritus.
A rational opioid selection between the hydrophilic and lipophilic opioids morphine, hydromorphone, alfentanil, fentanyl and sufentanil is discussed in this mini-review.
Thus, the administration of the lipophilic opioid sufentanil might has some advantages.
Notwithstanding, epidural opioid administration alone offers no marked clinical advantages compared to the intravenous route.
In future, reduced doses of lipophilic opioids and local anaesthetics like bupivacaine 0.05-0.1% may provide benefits over the use of either drug alone and may offer marked clinical advantages over the intravenous route of opioids alone.
The same holds true for  2-adrenoceptor agonists as adjuvants.
However, multicenter dose-ranging studies are necessary to determine both the ideal concentrations of the drug combinations and the general outcome.
Moreover, we must also determine cost effectiveness for our postoperative analgesic techniques.
Today the relevance of renal tumor embolization is not determined only by the technical and clinical success of the method.
Progress in diagnosis of early stages of renal carcinomas as well as the improvement of both surgical techniques and anesthetic procedures have lead to a change in the selection of patients for embolization.
Preoperative embolization of advanced renal cell carcinomas with tumor thrombus into the vena cava or of T4 tumors is now an established clinical procedure.
The complete occlusion of the vascular bed of the tumors leads to a considerable reduction in intraoperative blood loss and to simplification of the surgical preparation.
By using Ethibloc for embolization, palliation of a hemorrhage or of tumor-related pain in inoperable patients is usually successful.
Although local control of the tumor disease, including complete tumor ablation, is achieved by embolization, the median survival rate of our palliatively embolized patients is only 3.5 months.
This short life expectancy in the group of inoperable patients has to be acknowledged individually in patients considered for palliative embolization who are free of symptoms related to the tumor.
Purpose: To evaluate whether primary stenting is superior to balloon angioplasty (PTA) alone in the treatment of femoropopliteal obstructive disease.
Content of this paper is the current state of the art of robots in surgery and the ongoing work on the field of surgical robotics at the Clinic for Maxillofacial Surgery at the Charité.
Robots in surgery allows the surgeon to transform the accuracy of the imaging systems directly during the intervention and to plan an intervention beforehand.
In this paper firstly the state of the art is described.
Subsequently the scientific work at the clinic is described in detail.
The paper closes with a outlook for future applications of robotics systems in maxillofacial surgery.
Giant-cell bone tumors display a locally aggressive growth pattern, frequently recur if no adjuvant treatment is given, and may potentially metastasize.
By virtue of their biological behavior and typically juxta-articular localization, giant-cell bone tumors require specific surgical management.
Thus, an intralesional tumor excision must be supplemented by adjuvant bone cementing, possibly combined with instillation of phenol or cryotherapy.
These combined treatment modalities assure a high-quality procedure, defined as the actual way medical care is delivered, by promoting the quality of the outcome, defined as the effect of a medical procedure on the patient's state of health.
We report two patients with partial trisomy of the long arm of chromosome 7 and partial monosomy of the short arm of chromosome 17.
Chromosomal analysis of the family shows a familial balanced translocation of the chromosomes 7 and 17 in the parents and other relatives.
Pedigree analysis reveals abortions, frequent miscarriages and early infant deaths.
Our patients show the same chromosomal abnormality and nearly the same clinical symptoms: prominent forehead, hydrocephalus internus with wide cranial sutures and fontanels, hypertelorism, cleft soft palate, low set dysmorphic ears, psychomotor retardation and micrognathie.
Renal cell carcinomas (RCC) are endowed with impressive metastatic potential.
Patients with RCC who present with apparently solitary metastatic lesions represent a small cohort.
Due to the different long-term results achieved with surgical resection of metastatic RCC lesions, a generally accepted judgement about this treatment modality is not possible.
Several studies suggest that aggressive surgical management can provide an effective treatment, especially in patients with solitary pulmonary metastases.
Most noteworthy is the fact that because of the organ distribution of RCC metastases, surgical therapy is dominated by general and thoracic surgeons, neurosurgeons, and orthopaedic surgeons.
Therefore, an interdisciplinary approach is one of the most important key points for a successful outcome in these patients.
The term Langerhans cell histiocytosis, previously "Histiocytosis X", encompasses three different syndromes: eosinophilic granuloma of bone, Hand-Schüller-Christian disease and Abt-Letterer Siwe disease.
All are rare manifestations in childhood.
We report on a 10 year old boy presenting with a swelling in the occipital region and clinical signs of elevated intracranial pressure.
The tentative diagnosis after examination, conventional radiologic procedures and computerized tomography was eosinophilic granuloma.
Magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic resonance imaging-angiography revealed the acute threat to the child caused by the intracranial expanding mass lesion with almost complete obstruction of the confluens sinuum.
Thrombosis and the risk of bleeding were decreased by early and complete exstirpation of the tumor.
After two years follow-up, no new lesions had appeared.
The diffuse angiomatosis of the spleen is a rare splenic proliferation.
Spontaneous rupture is the main, potentially lethal complication, found in 25 % of cases.
The problem with these vascular tumors is preoperative diagnosis, because they are asymptomatic for a long time.
First-choice therapy is limited resection.
In the case of rupture, splenectomy is a life-saving procedure.
We report on a 56-year-old woman with a spontaneous splenic rupture as the first symptom of diffuse angiomatosis of the spleen.
Exceptional features of splenic hemangiomas, causes of spontaneous rupture and the therapy are described.
The hypothesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) as a T cell mediated disease has led to the development of numerous therapeutic approaches that target the function of T cells.
The development of monoclonal antibodies against the T cell surface molecule CD4 has raised hopes to achieve a major progress in the treatment of RA.
However, after encouraging results in early open studies, double blind trials were unable to demonstrate the efficacy of anti-CD4-therapy in RA.
There are numerous reasons to explain the failure of this treatment approach.
Besides the fact that the T cell hypothesis of RA has  repeatedly been challenged, pharmacological problems or an inappropriate selection of outcome criteria have to be considered.
The final evaluation of anti-CD4 therapy  in RA will be possible only after  the testing of newly developed  non-depleting anti-CD4 anti- bodies.
Purpose: For some time, the ambulatory diagnosis of respiratory disturbances during sleep has included the use of seven-channel recording units.
One of these systems is the POLY-MESAM unit (MAP, Germany).
Guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G proteins) function as transducers of information across the cell membrane by coupling receptors to effectors.
A large number of G protein-linked receptors funnel extra-cellular signals as diverse as hormones, growth factors, neurotransmitters, and primary sensory stimuli through a set of G proteins to a small number of second-messenger systems.
The G proteins act as molecular switches with an "on" and "off" state governed by a GTPase cycle.
By virtue of its high affinity and specificity for guanine nucleotide binding and its intrinsic GTPase activity, the -subunit of the G protein (G) plays the critical role in regulation of the effectors by their corresponding G protein.
Mutations of G may result in either constitutive activation or loss of expression mutations.
Given the variety of functions subserved by G protein-coupled signal transduction, it is not surprising that abnormalities in G protein-coupled pathways can lead to diseases with manifestations as dissimilar as blindness, hormone resistance, precocious puberty and neoplasia.
For a given defect in a G protein-coupled pathway, the extent of the manifestations will also be determined by the cellular distribution of the affected component.
Defects in components expressed exclusively in a single cell type will cause more a focal disorder than defects in a widely expressed component, particularly in germline mutations (e.g., Albright's hereditary osteodystrophy), whereas somatic mutations of genes encoding even an ubiquitously expressed component can cause focal disease when the somatic mutation itself is focal (e.g., McCune-Albright syndrome).
Mivacurium is a short-acting, nondepolarising muscle relaxant of the benzylisoquinoline type that undergoes rapid breakdown by plasma cholinesterase.
After 2.5 times the ED95 (0.2 mg/kg), tracheal intubation can be accomplished within 2-3 min following injection.
The ensuing DUR 25% (i.e., time from injection to 25% recovery of control twitch tension) is three times as long as with succinylcholine.
The principal side effects of mivacurium are facial flushing and a transient fall in blood pressure due to moderate histamine release following doses 3-4 times the ED95.
In patients with end-stage liver or renal disease as well as those with atypical plasma cholinesterase, the duration of action of mivacurium is prolonged.
The performance of new cryoprobes was studied by measuring the spatial and temporal patterns of the temperature distribution in liver tissue around one to three active cryoprobes.
After 15 min of maximal freezing a tissue region 22 mm in diameter was frozen to temperatures below - 50  °C by one active cryoprobe.
With three cryoprobes, using the synergistic cooling effect, a tissue region 45 mm in diameter was cooled to temperatures below - 50  °C.
Optimal placement of the cryoprobes was found to be of critical importance.
Attachment representation was assessed in 48 elderly people with an average age of 69 years.
The adult attachment interview was used plus an additional question about wishes for the future.
Coherent correlations with subjective life satisfaction and individual future perspective were demonstrated.
Elderly participants with secure attachment representation were more satisfied, they were also less anxious, and more often positive about their future.
If their adult children had secure attachment representation, they were reported by their elderly parents to be socially, emotionally, and materially more supportive.
Magnetic resonance imaging represents today the most important tool in neuroradiology for both clinical pratice and research.
MRI allows imaging of the human body in 2 or 3 dimensions with variable tissue contrast.
The natural diffusion of tissue protons can now be used as a supplementary contrast mechanism.
Different MRI techniques can be used to obtain clinically useful diffusion-weighted images.
These techniques all require the use of strong gradient pulses in order to obtain the diffusion contrast.
In the current article, the most important physical principles of diffusion measurement are presented.
After a short introduction into the basic physical principles, we will present the prerequisites and limitations of clinically relevant applications today.
Finally a few select examples of clinical use of these techniques in the acute diagnosis of stroke will be presented.
The effects of chronical strains on physical or psychological health are subject of this paper.
Stress-related symptoms of family caregivers of dementia patients have been proven in various studies.
For this group of people an analysis of the health risc factors is regarded as to be especially important.
Diary investigations allow to identify the individual assessment (by the caring person) of factors related to the care situation and to recognize the health and quality of sleep have been used as indicators regarding the state of health.
In this study strong differences in the individual view of stress factors and their effects on psychological an physical state of the caring person are shown.
The causes of residual deformity with posttraumatic painful arthritis after tarsometatarsal (Lisfranc) fracture-dislocation with the need for correctional arthrodesis are in our experience (22 cases over 5 years) overseen injuries in one third, closed reduction and immobilisation or inadequate fixation technique with K-wires in another two thirds of cases.
Foot malalignment and residual instability is assessed with weight-bearing radiographs of both feet, adduction/abduction stress films and CT scans for complex deformity.
Correction is carried out via two longitudinal dorsal incisions, strict epiperiosteal preparation and debridement of the Lisfranc joint of all remaining cartilage, sclerosis and fibrous tissue.
Reorientation begins, in the same manner as primary open reduction, with anatomical alignment of the second metatarsal base to the second cuneiform.
Defects are filled with autologous bone grafting, stable fusion can be achieved with 3.5 mm cancellous compression screws.
Full weight bearing is allowed in a modelled plaster shoe for 6 to 8 weeks.
The functional medium-term results are convincing with 15 of 17 patients seen after 13 months of follow-up working full time.
The Maryland Foot Score improved from 38.9 to 76.8 points in these patients.
The author of this paper deems it very necessary to rename Chinese Tuina, a traditional Chinese medical subject, so as to make Chinese Tuina conform to recent research results and formulation, as well as to combine Chinese Tuina with Western manual medicine at the clinic.
This paper is the result of my research during the period of time was in Switzerland working together with Prof. Jiri Dvorak.
The operability of a liver tumour depends on its three-dimensional relation to the intrahepatic vascular trees which define autonomously functioning liver (sub-)segments.
The aim of our study was to establish a computer-based three-dimensional volumetric operation planning system for the liver.
Methods: Using data from routine helical CT scans the three tissue subclasses of liver parenchyma, liver vessels and liver tumour were segmented semiautomatically.
A dedicated segmenting tool was established using region growing algorithms in combination with an "intelligent" border finder.
Visualisation is performed by the "Heidelberg Raytracer".
The vascular trees are visualised as 3D graphs.
Pseudoconnections between portal and hepatic venous trees are separated automatically.
Security margins are calculated and the system presents a virtual resection proposal.
Results: The 3D anatomy of the liver can be visualised in high quality resulting in good depth perception.
Dependent liver parenchyma can be recognised automatically on the basis of the vascular trees.
The system offers a individualised resection proposal including the tumour, security margin and dependent liver parenchyma.
Conclusion: Three-dimensional presentation of the individual liver anatomy of a given patient facilitates the perception of the pathology.
Virtual reality combined with artifical intelligence allows calculation of complete resection protocols, which can be quantified and modified interactively.
This will make operation planning more objective; patient selection may be improved, and in cases of difficult tumour localisation different resection strategies may be tested.
Thus virtual reality in liver surgery will improve teaching, surgical training and planning.
It may lead to improved surgical care.
Methods to predict the rate of spontaneous relapses in paroxysmal atrial fibrillation and the effectiveness of antiarrhythmic agents are missing.
P-wave signal averaging might be helpful in this setting.
However, correct validation and standardization is strongly needed for p-wave analysis with the high resolution ECG.
Signal averaging triggered to the p-wave is significantly superior to QRS-triggering.
Bidirectional filtering or FIR-filtering is necessary.
The data indicate significant differences in p-wave duration between patients with and without paroxysmal artrial fibrillation.
Class I antiarrhythmic agents demonstrate a significant prolongation of p-wave duration, but did not influence spectral parameters.
Treatment with sotalol reduces high frequency p-wave energy without altering p-wave duration.
After optimizing the methods, p-wave analysis offers promise to separate patients prone to atrial fibrillation and normals.
In addition, the evaluation of antiarrhythmic efficacy in patients with high risk of recurrent atrial fibrillation might be possible.
In the majority of cases right atrial or ventricular thrombi represent pulmonary emboli in transit.
These may be fatal in patients treated conservatively with anticoagulation only.
In literature the incidence of right heart thrombi in patients with proven pulmonary embolism is said to be in the range of 3 - 4%.
Extremely mobile, long, worm-shaped masses in the right heart cavities carry an especially high early thrombus-related mortality rate which ranges from 30 - 40%.
Current therapeutic strategies favour fibrinolytic therapy with consecutive anticoagulation.
In the last years, several studies addressed the role of the different antithrombotic therapeutics in unstable angina pectoris.
Acetylsalicylic acid still is the standard treatment reducing the rate of death and myocardial infarction by 50% in the first six months.
Ticlopidin has no clinical effect in the first six days and therefore is not suited for treatment in the acute phase.
Unfractionated heparin has an additional favourable effect when added to aspirin.
Low molecular weight-heparin is at least as effective as UF-heparin.
Direct thrombin-inhibitors (hirudin, hirudin-analoga) seem to be comparable to UF-heparin.
Pasminogen-activators should not be given in unstable angina, as they show a tendency to worsen the clinical outcome.
GP IIb/IIIa-antagonists (antibodies, synthetic antagonists) significantly improve the clinical effects of aspirin.
When combined with a reduced dose of heparin, their favourable effect remains unchanged, while bleeding complications are reduced to a minimum.
The study presents data on cardiovascular malformations in Bavarian livebirths, born between 1984 and 1991.
Cases have been ascertained retrospectively by reviewing hospital records of all children being referred to a children's hospital up to 2 years of age.
The classification scheme was based on abnormalities in developmental mechanisms.
Severe dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa with oral involvement often leads to dental destruction and restricted food intake, resulting in malnutrition and maldevelopment.
The patients become handicapped and have a poor prognosis.
We report on a now 13-year-old Turkish child with normal secondary dentition who had severely damaged primary dentition.
The teeth were treated surgically and then by continuous dental hygiene measures over the next 7 years.
This care also resulted in an improvement in the nutritional state, associated anemia and the incidence of skin infections.
Although cutaneous blistering and scarring has been progressive, with resulting mutilation of the fingers, the child is socially well adjusted in school and family.
Its clinical course demonstrates that the fate of patients with severe dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa can be improved through multidisciplinary management.
Our understanding of ulcer pathogenesis has dramatically changed since the discovery of Heliobacter pylori.
Peptic ulcer is now recognized as a chronic gastric infectious disease.
H. pylori can be considered the pacemaker, with other known risk factors ultimately contributing to the ulcer formation.
Treatment of H. pylori in peptic ulcer disease cures the acute lesion and prevents relapse and complications.
In clinical management a positive diagnosis of H. pylori is required and other potential causes for ulcer formation must be excluded before starting treatment.
The standard treatment in H. pylori positive ulcer consists of PPI in standard dose and two antibiotics either clarithromycin 2 x 500 mg and amoxycillin 2 x 1 g or metronidazole 2 x 400 mg and clarithromycin 2 x 250 mg (or 500 mg) for 7 days.
The simultaneous presence of H. pylori and NSAID intake requires distinct management.
Following bleeding complication a PPI needs to be given beyond 7 days until ulcer healing is endoscopically confirmed.
We present the results of a study conducted in collaboration with the German workers' board to monitor the effectiveness of treatment in 477 cases.
The examiners reviewed the charts of patients who had suffered distorsion or luxation of the knee, fractures of the spine with or without neural deficits, calcaneus fractures, rotator cuff lesions and shoulder luxation, and fractures of the acetabulum and pelvis as the result of accidents.
A new documentation sheet was desiged to note administrative and medical data.
All 477 patients' charts and X-rays were reviewed by three trauma surgeons, and procedures were monitored in a prospective manner.
The study revealed considerable discrepancies between the assumed injuries and those ultimately found to have been sustained, especially in the case of knee injuries.
The article reveals the results concerning the validity of the diagnosis and the need for more precisely tailored diagnostic methods for different patient groups.
Our final conclusion is that it is necessary to implement new paths of patient management and better steering features to improve both the quality of medical care and the administrative procedures in place.
A workshop on attenuated cold-adapted influenza virus vaccines (CAIV) was organized in Langen, Germany on December 16-17, 1998 by Prof. Reinhard Kurth, President of the Paul Ehrlich Institute.
Reperfusion injury has become a scientific problem of increasing importance, in part because of recent developments of thrombolytic therapy.
The mechanisms of reperfusion injury following focal cerebral ischemia, however, are not known in detail.
Recent studies strongly suggest that reactive oxygen species (ROS) and calcium overload play an important role in reperfusion injury and that pharmacological interventions against calcium- or free radical-mediated damage could extend the therapeutic window in cerebral ischemia/reperfusion.
The mediators involved are known to induce a mitochondrial permeability transition (PT) during the reperfusion period, which is associated with uncoupling of mitochondrial respiration, loss of mitochondrial membrane potential, and a burst production of ROS, leading to cellular death.
The mitochondrial PT is considered to be a key process in reperfusion injury following cerebral ischemia, as also observed in other organs such as heart and liver.
Pharmacological modulation of mitochondrial permeability changes have the potential to reduce tissue damage due to reperfusion.
We performed an open clinical trial to assess the safety and efficacy of a 1 µg/h ganciclovir implant for the treatment of newly and pretreated cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS).
The purpose of this study was to compare the initial stiffness of two techniques for posterior interbody lumbar fusion (PLIF) by a finite element approach.
Thus a finite element model of a human L3/4 spinal segment was generated.
Stiffness of the intact model was tested under compression (600 N), torsion (25 Nm) and shearing forces (250 N) without preload.
The results were compared to the stiffness following simulation of PLIF with two BAK-Cages and PLIF with two Harms-Cages and additional posterior screw-rod-osteosynthesis.
PLIF with two BAK-Cages resulted in a loss of stiffness in compression, torsion and shearing.
PLIF with two Harms-Cages and posterior osteosynthesis resulted in an increase of stiffness in compression, torsion and shearing.
Tramadol, an analgesic with mean potency one tenth that of morphine is used regularely for the treatment of chronic and postoperative pain.
Previous reports have indicated that tramadol may induce seizure activity when given together with a selective serotonine reuptake inhibitor (SSRI).
Therefore, its major mode of action may be questioned which purportedly is due to binding with the opioid receptor and partly due to the inhibition of monoamine reuptake.
Aim: The cause of a connatal hemiplegia was retrospectivly investigated in children born at term.
The article gives a short review on the history of the field.
First forensic cases were solved by the use  of medicocriminal entomology in the thirteenth century but the method has only developed to a professional level over the last 100 years.
In Europe, mainly French, Belgian, English and Scandinavian researchers have been responsible for maintaining the methods.
In France, an entomological police laboratory has been set up in Rosny-sous-bois.
In contrast to the United States of America where entomological evidence is accepted by the courts, the method has only just started to be accepted in Germany.
Initially cooperation with the police and with judges might help to establish the analysis of arthropods as a routine tool in forensic science for Germany.
27 patients with sternocostoclavicular hyperostosis (SCC) and/or pustulotic arthroosteitis (PAO) were examined with whole body scintigraphy, conventional radiography, and other imaging modalities, such as CT, MRI.
25 of 27 patients with SCCH showed a characteristic high bullhorn-like uptake of the sternocostoclavicular region with the manubrium sterni representing the skull and the inflamed sternocostoclavicular joints corresponding to the horns (=bullhorn-sign).
Scintigraphy revealed additional skeletal manifestations (spondylitis, sacroiliitis, osteitis, periostitis) in 19 of the 27 patients with SCCH and/or PAO.
In combination with PPP or psoriasis pustulosa, the typical scintigraphic bullhorn pattern enables the diagnosis of PAO (19 patients) with high confidence.
Patients with SCCH but without skin disease at the time of presentation (8 of 27 patients) may develop PPP later and, therefore, it is justified to classify them as incomplete PAO with high risk to develop other skeletal manifestations later in the course of the disease.
PADAM stands for partial androgen deficiency in the aging male, and it is currently diagnosed with a testosterone level below 3 ng/ml (300 ng/dl or 12 nmol/l), and with symptoms varying according to the individual.
The symptoms are a reduction or even loss of libido, a decline in muscle mass and strength, enhancement of visceral fatty tissue-padding, dryness of the skin, apathy, tiredness and distortion of mood right up to depression, and ostalgia due to osteoporosis.
A 34 year-old pregnant woman presented with reticulate pigmentation of the flexures, the dorsum of the hands and the genitoperianal region.
She was in good health and her family history was unremarkable.
Histologic examination of the hyperpigmented patches revealed pigmented filiform downgrowths of the interfollicular epidermis and follicular infundibula, as well as small epithelial cysts.
Upon immunohistochemical and ultrastructural studies, the number of melanocytes appeared normal.
The elongated dendritic processes of the melanocytes contained many mature melanosomes.
In the adjacent keratinocytes large melanosomes did not aggregate into complexes.
The diagnosis of localized reticulate pigmentary disorder was established.
The knowledge of the broad clinical spectrum of localized reticulate hyperpigmentations with its favorable prognosis is of practical importance.
Genital or flexural pigmented lesions have to be differentiated from melanosis of the vulva or acanthosis nigricans.
The presented case gives further evidence that many of the proposed entities characterized clinically by reticulate pigmented macules and hyperkeratotic follicular lesions are different phenotypic expressions of the same autosomal dominant genodermatosis.
Purpose: During the last few years there has been an increasing interest in evaluating quality of life (QOL) data regarding surgical treatment.
Methods: The present study comments the efficacy of laparoscopic antireflux surgery after required Nissen fundoplication of 70 patients.
Therefore, the German Gastrointestinal Quality of Life Index (GIQLI) was used to query the patients preoperatively and three times after surgery up to 1 year.
Results: Preoperatively, we found a low general GIQLI score (mean 92.7 points), which increased 6 weeks postoperatively (116.8 points), 3 months (124.8) and 1 year (mean 123.9 points) significantly and is now comparable to the healthy population (122.6 points).
Conclusion: It is our opinion that the efficacy of the treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease with required Nissen fundoplication can also be documented and discussed by using QOL.
Introduction: Serous cystadenomas of the pancreas are rare tumors and thought to be almost always benign.
Methods: We report our experience in the diagnosis and surgical treatment of 12 patients with these tumors.
Results: Between October 1993 and December 1998, 41 patients with cystic tumors of the pancreas underwent surgical resection; in 12 cases (11 women, 1 man) a serous cystadenoma (10 micrcocystic, 2 oligomacrocystic) was found.
Only 6 (50 %) patients had symptoms.
The mean tumor size was 4.8 (2.7-10) cm.
Ultrasound, CT and MRT usually could detect the mass, but differentiation with other cystic lesions was not reliable.
All tumors were resected: 4 Whipple procedures, 7 distal pancreatectomies and 1 segmental resection were performed.
No patient died after surgery and none had to be reoperated on.
Conclusions: Because of the difficulty in reliably differentiating benign and malignant lesions of the pancreas, we believe that cystic tumors of the pancreas should be resected.
We examined the prevalence of HIV-associated cutaneous disorders as well as the frequency and efficiency of UV-radiation in HIV-infected patients by evaluating the clinical records of 1310 patients seen between and 1994 and 1996.
41 patients were treated with UVB-radiation and 4 patients with UVA1-radiation, while three patients received PUVA-therapy.
UV-radiation proved to be efficient and safe in the treatment of pruritic papular eruption, atopic dermatitis and psoriasis.
Although some in vitro studies and studies with transgenic mice have suggested a negative impact of UV radiation on the immunosystem of HIV-positive patients, no progression of the HIV infection due to phototherapy has been proven.
The staff at interventional radiological procedures is exposed to high levels of ionizing radiation.
This applies especially to measures at cardiac catheterization laboratories.
In this study the annual radiation exposure to the staff was estimated by measuring the dose rate under characteristic conditions.
It could be shown that the resulting radiation exposure was strongly dependent on the radiation protection measures and is also dependent on the operation conditions of the x-ray tube.
The effective dose for the physician wearing a lead apron and thyroid shield was detremined to about 1.7 mSva.
Without a thyroid shield an effective dose of about 3.5 mSva resulted.
This corresponds to approximately the natural background radiation of about 2.4 mSva in the Federal Republic of Germany.
From the number of procedures performed we could derive an effective dose of approximately 1-2 µSv per application for the physician, averaged over all types of procedures.
Further, it could be shown that the readings of the film badges, usually worn by the staff, underestimate the effective dose by approximately a factor of two.
This is because the film badges do not include the contribution of the unshielded parts of the body to effective dose.
From the estimated annual effective dose, a lifetime dose of 68 mSv was estimated for a 40-year working career.
The corresponding lifetime risk for induced fatal cancer due to radiation exposure was determined to 0.3% applying the ICRP risk factor of 4  -  10-2 Sv-1.
Considering the NCRP recommendations for a safe occupation, working in a cardiac catheterization laboratory can be considered as safe when applying all radiation protection measures.
However, changing the protection measures and modifying the parameters of the x-ray-tube can lead to strong changes of the radiation exposure and the resulting risk estimation.
Treatment of pulmonary hypertension is an important issue in intensive care.
One therapeutic regimen involves the intravenous administration of prostacyclin (PGI2).
This, however, is accompanied by diminished hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction, reduced arterial oxygenation, and systemic vasodilation.
Thus, its clinical usefulness is limited.
However, the inhalation of vasodilators such as nitric oxide (NO) or nebulized PGI2 causes a selective pulmonary vasodilation in ventilated alveoli and improved gas exchange, without any systemic vasodilation.
It has therefore gained importance for the treatment of pulmonary failure associated with high shunt fractions.
However, the inhalation of vasodilators may have adverse effects: in the case of NO, toxic side effects are predominant (MetHb, NOx), whereas in the case of PGI2, technical problems in terms of dosing and administration safety are of major interest.
Furthermore, some patients do not respond to the treatment.
In some individuals a reduction in pulmonary hypertension can be seen, while others lack even pulmonary vasodilation.
The exact pathophysiological mechanisms remain to be investigated.
The treatment of infrarenal aortic aneurysms by means of transluminally placed endovascular prostheses reflects significant progress in the field of vascular surgery.
In the case of infrarenal aortic aneurysm it is possible to achieve technically successful implantation of such a prosthesis in well over 90 % of cases.
The rate of clinical success, meaning lasting effective exclusion of the aortic aneurysm, cannot (yet) be definitively determined, since no long-term results are so far available.
Secondary leaks are observed in at least 10 % of all patients, making a further therapy necessary (endorepair, conversion, embolization).
Further development of endovascular prostheses will include optimization of the aortal/iliac attachment of the prostheses, a better configuration and the development of long-lasting materials that can be used for endovascular prostheses.
The frequency of postspinal headaches after accidental puncture of the subarachnoid space with 16 - 18 G Tuohy needles is reported at 59 - 85%.
A case of postspinal headache syndrome persisting over a period of 6 weeks following epidural anaesthesia during labour is described.
A 30-year-old women had severe postspinal headache for 6 weeks after epidural anaesthesia during labour.
Conservative therapy for 3 days and 4 days of bedrest followed by cristalloid infusions during a 3-week hospital stay and a subsequent 3-week period of bedrest at home did not lead to lasting pain relief.
Intracranial haematoma and other abnormal processes were excluded by CCT.
A pathologic EEG was not confirmed by cranial MRT.
A lumbar epidural blood patch of 15 ml of autologous blood was performed at L3/4.
The patient stayed in bed for 12 h. After 3 h free of pain the patient complained of recurring headache.
After a further 48 h of bedrest she had recovered.
Because of lumbar pain 4 days after the epidural blood patch a MRT was performed, which showed the blood at L4 to S3 in the epidural space.
The diagnosis of a cerebrospinal fluid leakage was based on the history and the main symptom of postspinal headache: the pain onset in the supine position.
Such possible treatments as diminishing subarachnoidal pressure by bedrest, increasing cerebrospinal fluid production by infusions, increasing epidural pressure by epidural infusions and closing the cerebrospinal fluid leakage by epidural blood patch are discussed.
The average success rate with the epidural blood patch is 93%.
Volumes ranging from 5 to 20 ml are discussed for the autologous blood.
We chose 15 ml of blood, to take account of the possibility that blood might settle in the wide sacral space.
We were able to document the position of the blood patch as L4 to S3 on MR tomography (the injection site was L3/4).
Most patients are free of headache 1 h after epidural blood patch.
Our patient had to be confined to bed for another 48 h because of recurring headache.
The blood patch alone was not immediately sufficient to prevent all further cerebrospinal fluid leakage.
Probably more than one subarachnoidal puncture had been made during the difficult epidural anesthetic procedure.
On the other hand, the leak was probably only diminished because of the blood patch descending down to the wide sacral space.
The combination of the large-volume blood patch, which diminished the leakage, and conservative treatment, which narrowed the transdural pressure difference, was successful: the 6-week postspinal headache was cured.
Prolonged postspinal headache should be treated by epidural blood patch.
The use of over 10 ml cannot be generally recommended, although in this case most of the blood patch of 15 ml was localized caudally.
Careful monitoring for side effects is necessary with blood volumes larger than 10 ml.
If there is no immediate relief, conservative therapy with 24 - 48 h of bedrest is recommended.
If the headache persists a second blood patch should be performed, with the volume and the probable caudal spreading of the first taken into account.
The aim of the present study was to assess the effects of carvedilol therapy in addition to conventional heart failure therapy on heart rate variability (HRV) and on left ventricular function in 14 patients with mild to moderate heart failure due to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC).
After a 3- to 4-week titration period, carvedilol was titrated up to 50mg daily, or the highest dose tolerated (at least 25mg daily).
Maintenance treatment was then continued for 8 weeks.
Digital 24-hour Holter recordings were obtained at baseline and after 8 weeks of carvedilol therapy.
HRV for the entire 24-hour period was computed in the time domain using the Oxford Medilog Excel 2 analysis system.
Measures of HRV included the mean of all coupling intervals between normal beats (RRm), the standard deviation of all normal RR intervals (SDNN), the square root of the mean of the squared differences between adjacent normal RR intervals (rMSSD), and the proportion of adjacent normal RR intervals differing >50ms (pNN50).
The histologic determination of the degree of tissue anaplasia and grade of malignancy of gliomas is based upon qualitative histological features (nuclear pleomorphism, mitoses, endothelial proliferation, tumor necrosis).
This grading approach is influenced by the subjective interpretation of the pathologist, especially concerning the weighting of criteria (scant, moderate, pronounced).
An observer-independent approach seems to be feasible by abandoning the concept of parameter weighting in favor of an binary approach noting only the presence or absence of these structure parameters.
This grading procedure is recognized in the revised WHO classification of brain tumors for common type astrocytomas (Ste.
Anne-Mayo System, SAMS).
Our results indicate that a similiar approach is also suitable for grading purposes of oligodendrogliomas and mixed gliomas.
Our recent investigations on glioma grading showed, both for astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas, that a two-tiered grading scheme distinguishing only "low-grade" and "high-grade" cases was prognostically relevant.
For all glioma entities the onset of tumor angiogenesis with endothelial proliferation and contrast enhancement in CT and MRI seems to be the key criterion indicating irreversible tumor progression to the "high" malignancy grade.
In patients with severe angina pectoris due to coronary artery disease, who are not candidates for either percutaneous coronary angioplasty or coronary artery bypass surgery, transmyocardial laser revascularization (TMR) often leads to improvement of clinical symptoms and increased exercise capacity.
One drawback of TMR is the need for surgical thoracotomy in order to gain access to the epicardial survace of the heart.
Therefore, a catheter-based system has been developed, which allows creation of laser channels into the myocardium from the left ventricular cavity.
Several phase III studies have proven that the beta-interferons have positive effects on the number and severity of acute exacerbations of relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis.
Recently the first study on the effectiveness of interferon beta-1b in secondary progressive multiple sclerosis was published.
In a multicenter, double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled study 718 patients with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis and an expanded disability status scale (EDSS) value between 3.0 and 6.5 were treated with either 8 Mio.
interferon beta-1b or placebo subcutaneously every second day for two to three years.
The primary study end-point was the time until confirmed progression of the disease as signified by a one point increase of the EDSS value (for initial EDSS values between 3.0 and 5.5) or 0.5 point increase when the initial EDSS value was between 6.0 and 6.5.
After two years an interim analysis showed a highly significant difference in delay of disease progression by nine to twelve months for the treatment group (p=0.0008).
This means that interferon beta-1b is the first recombinant beta-interferon to be shown effective in the treatment of secondary progressive multiple sclerosis.
To test the effect of dorzolamide on accommodation or pupillary function.
Cases of female patients who suppose having been sexually abused by their fathers during (early) childhood and wish to explore and work on healing this trauma are being discussed.
As a result of projection and counter transference the therapist developes feelings of distrust, disbelief and of being involved in a "hysterical theatre performance" so that this sort of therapy is very difficult to conceive and carry out.
In this contribution an attempt is being made to understand these patients and to examine their psychodynamic background as well as the deeper meaning of their above mentioned theatrical efforts.
On the basis of these cases we can put the following psychodynamic hypotheses: 1) The incest-phantasy is a narcissistic attempt; 2) The incest-phantasy is a symbolic representation; 3) in the sense of a symbolic wish-fullfillment included in the parent-child-interaction.
After this, an attempt is being made to examine in various therapeutical scenes the role of these phantasis during the transference procedings and finally to develope diagnostic criteria with which these patients can be differentiated from others with definitely witnessed sexual abuse cases so that consequently treatment techniques can be devised in future.
Hospitals and clinics for ambulant surgery shall identify and register certain officially defined nosocomial infections (Surveillance) as well as the isolation of bacteria with special and important antimicrobial resistancies (§ 23 Abs.
1 IfSG = Infection Prevention Act).
The nosocomial infections to be recorded, i. e device associated infections and postsurgical woundinfections, have been selected on the basis of national and international experiences with the surveillance of nosocomial infections.
Important antimicrobial resistancies have been determined according to both the prevalence of the bacteria in nosocomial settings as well as their clinical and epidemiological importance.
Most of the relevant data may be provided by the clinical microbiology laboratory but shall be collected, listed and discussed by the staff of wards or surgery clinics.
Both types of documentation shall be used to identify and eradicate problems in hygiene management and to stop further distribution of difficult to treat bacteria like MRSA.They are part of the quality assurance management according to § 137 SGB V.
Nasopharyngeal carcinomas (NPC) belong to the most frequent malignant tumours in certain parts of the world, e. g., south-east Asia, while they occur infrequently in western  Europe.
The association of NPCs with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a transforming human herpes virus, is well established.
The current WHO classification recognises two major NPC histotypes, non-keratinising NPC and squamous cell NPC.
EBV is invariably present in non-keratinising NPCs and the viral oncoprotein LMP-1 (latent membrane protein-1) is expressed in some cases.
The tumour cells of non-keratinising NPCs show phenotypic features which are inducible by LMP-1 in  vitro.
These may contribute to the development of the lymphoid stroma which is characteristic of this tumour type.
Furthermore, the virus is detectable in nasopharyngeal carcinoma in situ.
Thus, the virus is likely to be involved in the pathogenesis of  non-keratinising NPCs.
By contrast, the association of squamous cell NPCs with EBV  displays a geographical variability.
It appears, therefore, that squamous cell NPCs are a heterogenous group of tumours distinct from non-keratinising NPCs.
To assess treatment outcome and prognostic factors following postoperative external radiotherapy in 77 patients with low-grade glioma.
Between 1977 and 1996, 45 patients with astrocytoma, 14 with oligodendroglioma and 18 with mixed glioma received postoperative radiotherapy with a median total dose of 52 Gy (range, 45 to 61 Gy).
Sixty-seven patients were treated immediately following surgery, 10 patients with tumor progression.
The influence of various factors including histology, gender, age, seizures, duration of symptoms (<= 6 weeks vs > 6 weeks), CT pattern (enhancement vs no enhancement), type of surgery, total radiotherapy dose and timing of radiotherapy on relapse-free survival and overall survival was investigated.
The median overall survival time was 81 month, the 5- and 10-year survival rates were 54% and 31%, respectively.
The median time to progression was 56 months, while the 5- and 10-year progression-free survival rates were 45% and 24%.
Univariate analyses identified the total radiotherapy dose (p = 0.01), duration of symptoms (p = 0.05), the presence of seizures (p = 0.04), and the CT pattern following intravenous contrast (p = 0.005) as significant prognostic factors for overall survival.
Progression-free survival rates were influenced by the total dose (p = 0.04), the duration of symptoms (p = 0.01) and CT pattern (p = 0.006).
On multivariate analysis, only the CT pattern (enhancement vs no enhancement) remained as independent prognostic factors for both progression-free survival and overall survival.
A minimum total dose of 52 Gy is recommended for the postoperative radiotherapy in low-grade glioma.
Tumors with CT enhancement seem to need further intensification of treatment.
We report three patients with severe Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS).
On clinical examination, no sensory deficit was elicited.
Electromyography (EMG) and motor nerve conduction velocity (NCV) studies were indicative of an axonal lesion.
In two patients, we found total peripheral conduction block without volitional EMG activity.
Sensory NCV and cortical median nerve evoked potentials remained normal.
Sural nerve biopsy revealed unequivocal alterations of sensory nerve fibers, some in the form of primary demyelination.
Therefore, these cases must bei classified as combined motor-sensory syndromes despite the clinical and electrophysiological findings.
Although total denervation of the extremity muscles occurred, causing tetraparalysis, this manifestation appears to be attributable to the secondary axonal variant.
In contrast to positive reports in literature, immunomodulatory treatment proved ineffective in all three cases.
Continuous spinal anaesthesia (CSA) is a further means of central nerve block for anaesthesia besides single-shot spinal (SSS), combined spinal/epidural, and epidural anaesthesia.
Do hepatitis C virus (HCV) infected food handlers represent a risk for the consumer?
Epidemiological data on HCV transmission  in our opinion do not provide a basis for excluding HCV positive individuals from working as food handlers in general.
Such restrictions seem to be justified only if HCV infected employees might infect their colleagues while performing occupational activities that are associated with a high risk of contracting percutaneous injuries and overt bleeding.
Recently, good functional and anatomical results have been reported in treating full thickness macular holes.
Only a few studies describe a removal of a membrane at the vitreoretinal interface after having removal of the vitreous and its cortex.
To demonstrate the beneficial effects of removing this membrane at the vitreoretinal interface we present our functional and anatomical results in this retrospective study.
Dementia-screening in clinical routine requires short, sensitive and specific tools.
A number of standardized instruments are available for this purpose.
The present study analysed the relationship between size of three examplary dementia-screening tests and their diagnostic accuracy.
A phlebological report requires that an exact diagnostic investigation of the peripheral vein system be carried out to assess both function and morphology.
The most important, reproducible findings can be obtained using dynamic phlebodynamometry and ascending pressure phlebography, as a second expert can directly reconstruct the process by which assessments have been made.
Additional quantification information can be obtained by measuring reflux using colour- coded duplex sonography.
A thrombophilic condition should always be investigated in terms of haemotasis.
In patients with severe post-thrombotic disease, a chronic compartment syndrome of the posterior spaces should be reckoned with, and in such patients magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography and, if possible, dynamic compartment manometry are additional suitable methods of examination.
There is currently no generally valid schematization of the post-thrombotic syndrome on which to base an expert opinion.
When evaluating patients, we largely follow our own new classification, which distinguishes four stages based on clinical tissue sclerosis.
Since systemic treatment of neuropathic plantar ulcers in diabetics (DNPU) has so far been rather ineffective, recent reports of successful management of DNPU by short-term retrograde transvenous leg perfusions (RVP) by South American angiologists encouraged us to apply this treatment method in diabetics suffering from chronic DNPU.
Hence, in a prospective comparative clinical trial started in 1989 we have treated 45 male diabetics suffering from DNPU with the same daily doses of netilmycin, administered either in systemic venous infusions (SVI: n=21, three times/day) or in RVP (n=24, once/day).
After 10 consecutive days of treatment, ulcers had closed in 8 of the 24 patients treated with RVP, as against 3 of the 21 treated with SVI.
Diminution of the ulcer area by >30% including full debridement was achieved in 10/24 of the RVP cases (SVI: 4/21).
During 6 months of follow-up, amputation of toes or forefoot was necessary in only 1 patient in the RVP group, but in 4 in the SVI group.
Partial restitution of osteolytic damage was observed in some cases after RVP.
Our results show that regional netilmycin therapy given by the RVP procedure is clearly superior to equal netilmycin doses administered by SVI for the treatment of DNPU.
RVP can be recommended in DNPU, particularly when the ulcers are complicated by infections.
There is hardly any other discipline that illustrates the conflict between the freedom of science and research, that is to say, ultimately, what is medically possible, and human dignity and the protection of life or, in other words, what can be justified in ethical or legal terms, so clearly as reproduction medicine.
The topics involved in this conflict cover a broad spectrum, ranging from in vitro fertilization with subsequent implantation of the embryo through the problems of multiple pregnancy and selective feticide, the many questions raised by assisted fertilization, and especially by anonymous sperm donation, and the controversial techniques of preimplantation diagnosis and cryopreservation, to the legal aspects of prenatal diagnosis, some of which have already been the subjects of cases decided in the supreme courts.
In a good many of these sectors it is difficult to reconcile what doctors can do and what it is admissible for them to do, so that it is hardly surprising that there is often no general consensus.
Against this backdrop objective discussion is all the more important, and the notes in this paper, which necessarily touch on only some of the matters at issue, are intended to stimulate such discussion.
In MR-imaging, similar to computed tomography, diagnosis of metastatic lymph-node disease is based on lymph-node sizes, and thereby it is non-specific.
Superparamagnetic iron oxide as a potential contrast medium for MR-lymphography accumulate in normal lymph node tissue after endolymphatic, interstitial and, in case of very small particles, after intravenous injection.
No accumulation occures in lymph node metastases.
Lymph-node metastases can be detected by all three injection techniques.
It has been shown experimentally, that in particular small metastases can be detected in normal sized lymph nodes.
However, MR-lymphography also has inherent methodologic problems, as there may occure an uneven distribution of the contrast medium between different lymph-node groups.
The experimental results with endolymphatic, interstitial, and intravenous MR-lymphography as well as first clinical results with intravenous contrast medium injection are presented and discussed.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate anatomical and functional results of vitreoretinal silicone oil surgery for complicated retinal detachments due to trauma and myopia in children and juveniles.
In 1993, we adopted conventional thoracic and abdominal prosthetic grafting and tailored aortoplasty (TAP) of the thoraco-abdominal aortic segment III/IV in chronic-expanding type B aortic dissection (CEAD) to achieve 2 primary goals: 1. reduction of renal/visceral and spinal cord ischemic time; 2. safe and secure reperfusion of all critical aortic branches for prevention of major complications, i. e. paraplegia, kidney failure, and intestinal infarction.
Among 71 thoracoabdominal aortic reconstructions since 1993, 5 CEAD patients (median age 47.8 yr, mean CEAD- 6.5 cm, 4 with Marfan Syndrome) underwent TAP.
Selection criteria are: 1.
CEAD- >5 cm 2. expansion rate >=5 mm/6 months 3. involvement of the critical aortic segment III/IV.
TAP consists of: 1. left posterolateral aortotomy from Th 8 - L 2, 2. excision of the intraaortic dissection membrane(s) 3. aortic closure to a diameter of 3 cm to reduce wall tension.
All 5 patients survived without any major complications, particularly no paraplegia.
Mean cross-clamping was 43 min.
After 7 months, 1 patient was successfully repaired due to false aneurysm at the distal thoracic graft suture line.
After mean follow-up of 2.4 years, CT-angiography revealed a stable TAP segment (mean aortic- 3.2 cm) in 4 patients and one re-expanded TAP segment (from 4 cm after 24 months up to 7 cm) without signs of re-dissection.
Our 4-year-results (1) corroborate the Johns Hopkins data.
Although one re-expanded TAP segment is disquieting, we found the short-term gains so rewarding to strongly advocate the tailored approach as a principle means of avoiding paraplegia in this extremely high risk group of patients.
All optically active molecules have at least one asymmetric atom in common which is attached to four ligands, that can have different three dimensional positions.
Therefore it can be concluded that the resulting isomers are chemically identical in all respects except for the direction with which they rotate plane-polarized light.
When the isomer and its corresponding enantiomer are present in equal proportions, they are called racemic mixture, a mixture that does not rotate polarized light, since the optical activities of the two isomers cancel each other.
Although the isomers are chemically identical other optically active molecules can interact with these isomers in a geometrically specific way termed stereoselectivity.
The human body comprises a chiral environment due to optically active proteins; thus it is not surprising that enantiomeric drugs exhibit different pharmacological properties, when used as pure optical isomers.
Till today most modern anaesthetics have been optical isomers, which are mainly used as racemic mixture (1:1 mixture).
For financial reasons pure isomers were only used for research purposes, but nowadays the wide clinical use of pure isomers is financially feasible due to new production techniques.
The terms eutomer and distomer were chosen to indicate the more or less potent form of the drug.
The clinical use of pure isomers is only of advisable, if there are significant differences between eutomer and distomer in desired or side effects.
Among the modern anaesthetics ketamine, isoflurane, bupivacaine and atracurium exhibit an asymmetric carbon.
For most drugs the separation in pure isomers will reduce side effects.
For volatile anaesthetics this question is still unanswered, since experimental and clinical results are inconsistent so far.
The high prevalence of aspirin intolerance in asthmatics and patients with nasal polyps as well as reports of familial clustering suggest a genetic disposition of this disease.
Our study aimed at obtaining further evidence of hereditary factors in this disease.
We included 33 unselected patients from 28 families with aspirin intolerance and rhinosinusitis in this study.
Controls were recruited from individuals treated in our ENT clinic for diseases other than aspirin intolerance (n=52).
The application of a tryptophan-free amino acid mixture (tryptophan depletion test) induces a rapid and substantial lowering of both total and free plasma tryptophan.
Consequently, the brain serotonin content and also cerebral serotonin function are decreased.
This method provides a paradigm to study the role of serotonin in the pathobiology of depressive disorders and their treatment modalities.
Untreated depressed patients show few behavioral effects during tryptophan depletion.
In depressed patients during an antidepressant or light-therapy-induced stable remission, a transient depressive relapse was induced by tryptophan depletion.
Healthy subjects with a genetic risk for affective disorder show worsening of their condition induced by tryptophan depletion.
These findings indicate the relevance of altered brain serotonin function in the pathophysiology of affective disorders and strengthen the importance of serotonin in the mechanism of action of antidepressants.
Since recently published studies revealed some evidence that the serotonergic system is directly involved in the pathophysiology of various psychiatric syndromes besides depression, it seems to be reasonable to evaluate the validity of the tryptophan depletion test also in non-depressed patients.
Several common chronic pain syndromes come to the attention of the rheumatologist demanding for differentiation from fibromyalgia (FM), although they are often associated with it.
They may mimick FM by (1) the occurance of wide spread pain, (2) the chronicity of complaints, (3) the preponderance of females in some of these, and (4) the lack of objective data to be derived from imaging techniques and laboratory tests.
Pain is produced by the disturbance of normal function ("dysfunctional syndromes", MASI, ref.
Recognition requires examination of the locomotor system under biomechanical auspices both at rest and during movement in order to diagnose hyper- and hypomobility syndromes; treatment of these conditions is guided by principles to improve biomechanical function.
In addition, the skin needs to be examined to detect panniculosis (also called "cellulitis"), which may be mixed up with FM due to its preferential occurance in peri- or postmenopausal women.
It is concluded that the aforementioned differential diagnosis needs to be considered appropriately in coinciding FM and all studies dealing with FM.
In a prospective, randomized study of patients with acute manifestation of coronary heart disease and hypercholesterolemia (LDL cholesterol >=130<=250mg/dl), we compared the effect of an early-initiated, intensified therapy to usual care antilipidemic therapy with respect to coronary lesions and clinical events.
Patients were included immediately following acute myocardial infarction and/or PTCA because of severe/instable angina pectoris.
The intensified therapy consisted of pravastatin 20-40mg with addition of colestyramine and/or nicotinic acid, if necessary, to achieve an LDL cholesterol <=130mg/dl.
In the control group, antilipidemic therapy was left up to the private physician.
Multiple sclerosis is a rare disease in childhood.
A 10 1/2 year old girl developed a rapidly ongoing paresis of the right leg accompanied by paresthesia, sphincter incompetence and retrobulbar neuritis.
Abrupt vessel closure of the dilated vessel continues to represent a significant limitation of coronary angioplasty.
Despite increasing operator experience and improved technology, abrupt vessel closure continues to represent the most important complication of balloon angioplasty.
Intracoronary stent implantation and pharmaceutical blockade of the GP IIb/IIIa receptor serve as effective tools in the prevention of abrupt vessel closure without completely resolving this problem.
About 50% of patients presenting with abrupt vessel closure exhibit additional complications including myocardial infarction, necessity of CABG or death occurring in up to 10% of acute occlusions.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate if quantitative coronary angiography and assessment of clinical and laboratory data allows risk stratification concerning the probability of abrupt vessel closure.
PTCA in the setting of acute coronary syndrome is associated with a markedly increased risk of abrupt vessel closure, indicating that different risk factors may contribute to the development of abrupt vessel closure in patients presenting with stable angina or acute coronary insufficiency syndromes.
Since the skin dose becomes the limiting factor while deciding the tumorcidal dose, the detailed analysis of dose distribution in the build-up region is necessary for high-energy photon beams.
In this study the beam characteriwstics affecting the build-up and skin dose for 6- and 18-MV photons are analyzed.
Measurements were made with 6- and 18-MV photons using a PTW parallel-plate ionization chamber (B23344-036) and a RDM-1F electrometer.
Build-up ionization measurements were made with the chamber fitted into a 25 x 25 x 25 cm polystyrene phantom with a fixed SSD of 100 cm.
The entrance and buildup dose measurements were made with a polycarbonate and a mesh type metallic shielding tray and a 45 ° wedge.
Exit dose measurements were carried out for the graphite patient supporting assembly table top, 1.0 cm thick piece of wood and the 1.0 cm thick patient supporting perspex base frame for head and neck treatments.
It was observed that the dmax decreased slightly with field size as with other accelerators.
For both photon energies the surface dose was observed to increase with increase in field size.
It was also noticed that the dose in the build-up region increases slightly when the polycarbonate secondary blocking tray is introduced with the increase in surface dose.
The data show that the tray pertubation factor (TPF) at surface decreases steadily with tray-surface distance for both photon beams for all field sizes.
It was noted that the TPF was more when the polycarbonate tray was introduced at shorter tray-surface distances for both energies.
At tray-surface distances above 60 cm the TPF almost remained close to unity for 6-MV photons for all field sizes, whereas the continuous decrease in TPF could be noted for 18-MV photon beams even after the TPF rewached unity.
The increase in surface dose with field size for both photon energies is due to the electron scattering from the intervening materials.
The use of wedge filters absorbs low-energy scattered electrons siginificantly and hence, the relative surface dose (RSD) is always less than unity.
The increase in dose enhancement percentage with graphite compared to perspex supporting assembly indicates that the electron backscatter is proportional to the atomic number of the medium.
We investigated the nutritional value of a very low fat diet (diet I) adapted to nutritional habits in Germany.
Data were compared to a low fat diet (diet II) according to the American Heart Association.
The study was performed in 37 patients with coronary heart disease (30 males and 7 females, age 45-83 yrs) stratified to the 2 dietary treatments.
Daily fat intake was 38g (24% of energy intake of 6.5MJ/d) in diet I and 60g (31% of 7.3MJ/d) in diet II (p<0.01), respectively.
When compared with dietII, in dietI the intake of cholesterol, saturated and monunsaturated fatty acids, Vit.
B12 were all reduced (p<0.01), whereas the uptake of Vit.
C was increased p<0.01.
The intake of folic acid was low in both groups.
Both diets resulted in a decrease in BMI, systolic and diastolic blood pressure, plasma cholesterol and LDL cholesterol levels.
Concomitantly plasma triglycerides only decreased in response to dietI but HDL cholesterol levels remained unchanged.
Reduction of BMI and cholesterol levels were dependent on baseline BMI and cholesterol concentrations, respectively.
The cholesterol lowering effect of diet I is in part attributed to the weight lowering effect of the diet.
Taking into account the nutritional habits in Germany, very low fat diets seem to be adequate with respect to their nutritional value.
Both diets are effective in lowering body weight, plasma cholesterol and triglyceride levels without affecting HDL cholesterol.
These effects are most pronounced in overweight and hypercholesterolemic patients.
Besides autopsy determined findings of a fibro-fatty replacement in the right ventricular myocardium, no assured clinical evidence of arrhythmogenie right ventricular dysplasia-cardiomyopathy (ARVD) exists yet.
Criteria for the clinical diagnosis of AVRD were complied in 1994 by members of the ISFC work group and the European Association for Cardiology.
These criteria include structural, functional, histological, and electrophysiological abnormalities, which were divided into major and minor criteria.
With the successive examination of a collective of 24 patients with a histologically determined diagnosis of ARVD at the Jean Rostand Hospital in Ivry-sur-Seien, France, the value of the complied criteria were checked.
Global or segmental dilatation of the right ventricle in the sense of major criteria could be proven in 20 patients (83%) using angiography or electrocardiography.
Four patients (16%) exhibited only minor criteria in the radionuclear angioscintigraphy or right ventricular angiography in the form of segmental kinetic disturbances of the right ventricular.
In all patients, the typical fibrofatty replacement in the right ventricular myocardium could be histologically determined.
T-inversion in the right precordial leads were present in 17 patients (71%).
A localized QRS-widening of more than 110ms in V1 to V3 in 8 patients (33%) and an epsilon wave in 6 patients (25%) were observed as major criteria.
A late potential analysis using signal averaged ECG was only present in 8 patients with positive results in 4 cases (50%) in the sense of minor criteria.
Left bundle branch block ventricular tachycardia, which was classified as a minor criterion, was observed in 23 patients (96%); only one patient died without proven arrhythmia from rapidly progressing heart failure.
A previous history of unexpected sudden death in family members as a minor criterion arose in 3 of 19 patients (15%).
The complied task force criteria for the diagnosis of AVRD led in all 24 cases to the diagnosis of the disease, whereby the value of a determined histological diagnosis was the gold standard.
Without inclusion of histological data, the clinical diagnosis was determined in only 10 cases.
The question remains whether with a simple division of findings into major and minor criteria a pure clinical diagnosis is possible.
Subungual keratoacanthomas (SKA) differ in clinical presentation, biological behaviour and the therapy needed from keratoacanthomas in other localizations.
Against the backdrop of two personal observations and a review of the literature, the authors describe clinical and histological features and also the differential diagnosis and therapy and this rare benign neoplasm.
Patients present with a rapidly growing, painful subungual mass, which causes destruction of the underlying bone and usually does not regress spontaneously.
Histological differentiation from squamous cell carcinoma is essential as the prognosis and treatment are different.
SKA is treated by local excision and curettage.
Erosions of the underlying distal phalanx usually heal spontaneously.
However, persistent recurrences after subtotal excision often necessitate amputation of the distal phalanx.
Leukotrienes and prostaglandines are important mediators of inflammation.
While prostaglandine synthesis can be influenced by NSAIDs therapeutical approaches to the 5-lipoxygenase pathway are rare.
Resinous extracts of Boswellia serrata (H15, indish incense), known from traditional ayurvedic medicine, decrease leukotriene synthesis in vitro.
Case reports suggest a clinical role for that drug.
Methods: Outpatients with active RA have been enrolled into a multicenter controlled trial.
Patients received 9 tablets of active drug (3600 mg) or placebo daily in addition to their previous therapy.
Doses of NSAIDs could be adjusted on demand.
Efficacy parameters, Ritchies Index for swelling and pain, ESR, CRP, pain on VAS and NSAID dose were documented at baseline and 6 and 12 weeks after initiation.
Mean values and medians were calculated to compare the groups for significant or clinically relevant change from baseline or difference between both groups at any time point of observation.
Results: A total of 78 patients were recruited in 4 centers, the data have been published in abstractform.
Only 37 patients (verum 18, placebo 19), enrolled in Ratingen were available for detailled efficacy and safety analysis.
All evaluations in these patients were performed by one investigator (G.H.).
There was no subjective, clinical or laboratory parameter showing a significant or clinically relevant change from baseline or difference between both groups at any time point of observation.
The mean NSAID dose reduction reached levels of 5.8% (H15) and 3.1% (placebo).
One patient in each group showed a good response in all parameters but 4 patients in each group worsened.
The others showed no alteration of their disease.
Conclusion: Treatment with H15 showed no measurable efficacy.
Controlled studies including a greater patient population are necessary to confirm or reject our results.
A 61-year-old woman with depression developed recurring elevated itching erythematous lesions in light-exposed areas after taking St. John's Wort-extract for three years.
Routine patchtesting did not reveal any relevant reactions and photopatch testing was negative.
Using a systemic oral photoprovocation test with St. John's Wort, we were able to demonstrate a decrease of the MED-UVB which was reversible after withdrawal of the medication.
Due to its low solubility and the high maximum concentration delivered by the vaporizer sevoflurane is especially suitable for the performance of low flow anaesthetic techniques.
High flow phases for wash-in or wash-out of anaesthetic gases can be kept short, the difference between the volatile's concentration in the fresh gas and within the breathing system is comparatively small, and the time constants are short even during low flow anaesthesia.
The monitoring, required to sufficiently ensure the safety of the patients, corresponds to the current obliging technical safety standards.
As compound A may accumulate in the breathing system, sevoflurane should not be administered with fresh gas flows lower than 1.0 l/min, until the scientific discussion on nephrotoxicity of this substance in humans is solved.
Low flow anaesthesia guarantees a sufficient and continuous wash-out of trace gases.
Thoroughly the use of sevoflurane with dry soda lime must be avoided, as this volatile in an extreme exothermic reaction is absorbed nearly totally and degraded to a considerable degree by dry carbon dioxide absorbent.
The gaseous degradation products are pungent and possibly may be harmful to the patients.
Only by low flow anaesthesia the use of sevoflurane will gain an economically and ecologically acceptable range of efficiency.
Cardiogenic shock is the leading cause of death in patients hospitalized with acute myocardial infarction.
The typical delay from the onset of acute infarction to the development of cardiogenic shock and well defined risk factors allow for an early identification of patients at risk.
Immediate restoration of coronary artery patency by thrombolysis or PTCA can prevent cardiogenic shock in a number of these patients.
Patients presenting with frank cardiogenic shock should be approached with diagnostic vigor in an attempt to identify a treatable lesion.
Several non-randomized studies suggest that PTCA is superior to thrombolysis in patients with shock and ongoing ischemia.
However, aortic counterpulsation may enhance reperfusion rates achieved by thrombolytic therapy in patients with cardiogenic shock.
Early surgery is required in patients with shock due to mechanical complications, such as acute mitral regurgitation or rupture of the ventricular septum.
Ventricular assist devices can be used in selected patients with refractory shock as a bridge to cardiac transplantation.
Right atrial thrombi are rare, but potentially life-threatening complications of ventriculoatrial shunts.
We report on a 4.6 year old girl, presenting with signs of subacute valve malfunction; in her cerebrospinal fluid koagulase-negative staphylococcus could be cultured, and the CF protein was elevated.
Bidimensional echocardiography demonstrated a large thrombus on the distal part of the shunt.
The thrombus protruded into the right ventricle during diastole.
The child underwent cardiotomy and thrombectomy.
Object of this review is to present the physiological principles, diagnostic techniques and therapeutic options that are related to modifications of oxygen delivery in sepsis.
Despite intense research activities in this area, many topics regarding oxygen transport and oxygen consumption in sepsis are still not clear.
For example, the often discussed shift of the critical value of oxygen delivery to higher values in sepsis has not been proven, yet.
Beside an impaired regional perfusion also disturbances in the cellular oxygen utilization may be responsible for organ failure in sepsis.
Until now, it was not shown, whether the increase of oxygen delivery to supranormal levels reduces mortality in septic patients.
It is also unknown, which catecholamine and which infusion solution is suitable for the treatment of septic patients.
In future further research is necessary to solve the problems associated with sepsis therapy.
The rapid sequence induction of anaesthesia in patients with an increased risk of pulmonary aspiration is a quite involved procedure associated with many potential dangers.
A new nasogastric balloon tube has been developed, which will prevent the reflux of gastric contents by blocking the cardia with a balloon.
It was the aim of this initial study to assess the efficiency of the tube in animals, healthy volunteers and patients.
With the approval of the Animal Ethics Committee, a total of 16 anaesthetised pigs were used for the animal experiments.
Balloon occlusion of the cardia was performed in 10 pigs.
Six further pigs with an unblocked cardia served as controls.
Vomiting and regurgitation was provoked in each animal using six different manoeuvres while the gastro-oesophageal (lower oesophageal) sphincter and intragastric pressures were monitored and the lower oesophagus was continuously inspected using an endoscope.
With local Ethics Committee approval and informed written consent, (1) repeated vomiting was provoked in 16 awake, healthy adult volunteers (10 females, 6 males, 29 +/- 4 years) with a fluid-filled stomach in the presence and in the absence of balloon occlusion of the cardia, while intragastric pressure was monitored, and (2) 30 patients (21 - 89 years) with an increased risk of pulmonary aspiration scheduled for abdominal or traumatologic surgery received conventional induction of anesthesia after blocking of the cardia with the balloon.
Pigs (n=10) with a blocked cardia showed no gastrooesophageal reflux during a total of 60 manipulations to provoke vomiting and regurgitation, while 28 of the 36 provoking manipulations induced reflux in pigs (n=6) with an unblocked cardia.
Among the healthy volunteers with a blocked cardia (n=16), reflux of gastric contents was not observed during repeated attempts to stimulate vomiting.
After termination of the occlusion of the cardia, reflux was able to be induced by 14 of the 16 volunteers.
In 30 patients with an increased risk of pulmonary aspiration the cardia was blocked and anaesthesia was induced using a mask and manual ventilation without encountering any problems.
The average time from loss of consciousness to tracheal intubation was 164 +/- 8 s. Conclusions.
It is concluded from the present results, with further clinical studies pending, that the gastric balloon probe permits low-risk conventional induction sequence of anaesthesia in patients with an increased risk for pulmonary aspiration and that the device may also be safely used during the extubation phase.
The article explains the cognitive psychoanalytic theory of psychotherapy developed by Weiss and discusses the theory in the field between psychoanalytic and cognitive-behavioristic theories and therapeutic techniques.
The basic assumption is: pathogenic beliefs that are based on traumatic childhood experiences prevent normal desirable goals.
Patients are unconsciously motivated to overcome pathogenic beliefs.
In psychotherapy, the patient works to disprove pathogenic beliefs by testing them in the relationship with the therapist.
In this way patients achieve corrective emotional experiences.
The theory is supported by numerous empirical studies.
Treatment with "nootropic drugs" of patients suffering from dementia is often described as arbitrary.
To define the potential usefulness of nootropic drugs, effects and side effects, economic aspects in comparison to other treatment approaches were studied.
A summary of literature published concerning these criteria underlines the efficacy of nootropics in improving the symptoms at the beginning and in postponing the progress of the disease.
The majority of substances does not lead to severe side effects.
There are not enough studies comparing the effects of the substances or on prophylactic effects.
Delayed admission to care units leads to a positi- ve cost effect of nootropics.
Thus, also for economic reasons it seems advisable to treat patients with nootropics.
Better effects are gained when nootropic treatment is combined with training and changing of the structure of the environment.
A proposal for a rational treatment with nootropics is derived from the data.
Purpose: To evaluate the efficacy of high-dose Gd-DTPA-BMA (gadodiamide, Omniscan) as a contrast for magnetic resonance imaging of malignant bone tumors and the use of high-dose dynamic studies for predicting the response to preoperative chemotherapy.
Simulation has gained an important role in medical education and continuing education in the field of anaesthesia and emergency medicine.
This article gives background information on how full-scale simulators are applied in medical education as well as in continuing education for advanced anesthesia and scientific applications.
Acceptance of training seems enhanced by inclusion of the human factor aspect, since this has proven  to be a major source for the development of critical situations in our specialty.
Furthermore, drawbacks of the simulators available and the current training availability in Germany is described.
We evaluated changes in brain tissue oxygen pressure (ptiO2) and global cerebral blood flow (CBF) during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) with deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (DHCA) in ten anesthetized New Zealand White rabbits (body weight 2.5 +/- 0.5 kg).
CBF [hydrogen desaturation (clearance)-technique) and ptiO2 (Licox-microsensor) right frontoparietal cortex] were determined.
After median sternotomy, the animals were placed on CPB (standard roller pump, nonpulsatile, -stat acid-base management, perfusion flow of 180-200 mL/kg/min, right atrial and aortic cannulation) for induction of DHCA by cooling to 15 °C rectal temperature (1 °C per minute).
Rewarming period was started after 60 minutes of circulatory arrest and the rabbits were weaned from CPB without the use of any inotropic or vasoactive support.
Under baseline conditions, ptiO2 was 38 +/- 5 mmHg and did not change significantly before DHCA.
During DHCA the ptiO2 decreased within 15 minutes to 14 +/- 5 mmHg, after 30 minutes to 5 +/- 1 mmHg and after 40 minutes to zero.
Neither the ptiO2 nor CBF recovered fully following restoration of bypass flow and reperfusion: ptiO2 (25 +/- 4 mmHg vs. baseline: 38 +/- 5 mmHg, p<0.05) and CBF (43 +/- 8 vs. baseline: 68 +/- 11 ml/100 g/min, p<0.05) were significantly reduced.
Arterial and jugular-venous lactate levels increased after rewarming (p<0.05) and corresponded to the appearance of a anaerobic metabolism.
These data demonstrate significantly decreased levels of ptiO2 (brain tissue oxygenation) and CBF (oxygen supply) during and after rewarming from DHCA.
The induced impairment of recovery persists after rewarming and generates a temporary low-flow situation with delayed brain tissue reoxygenation on the cellular/mitochondrial level.
Thus, a direct influence on brain functional recovery by the active cooling and rewarming process about the bloodstream during CPB, resulting in disturbed tissue blood redistribution, mitochondrial dysfunction and/or excessive cerebral oxygen consumption (compensation of an oxygen debt) is a possible explanation.
While initially advocated primarily for intrasurgical visualization (e. g., craniotomy), interventional MRI rapidly evolved into roles in image-guided localization for needle-based procedures, minimally invasive neurosurgical procedures, and thermal ablation of cancer.
In this contest, MRI pulse sequences and scanning methods serve one of four primary roles: (1) speed improvement, (2) device localization, (3) anatomy/lesion differentiation and (4) temperature sensitivity.
A 74-years old patient is admitted to the hospital with a over a period of 4 years growing, scrotal, ulcerated tumor.
There is no connection to the testicle or the epididymis palpable.
All laboratory findings including the tumorparameters are normal.
The scrotal sonography shows a solid tumor, that is filled with vessels in the Doppler sonography.
The complete tumor resection with histological examination leads to the diagnosis of a scrotal leiomyoma.
This rare, benign tumor is a differential diagnosis to paratesticular or non-germinal tumors.
This review summarizes vascular tumours of skin and soft tissues that have been characterised in recent years.
Although most of them are very rare, knowledge about their reproducible clinicopathological features is important to avoid diagnostic pitfalls.
These lesions include: bacillary angiomatosis, a vasoproliferative, pseudoneoplastic infection of immunocompromised patients caused by Rochalimaea henselae; tufted angioma, a variant of lobular capillary haemangioma characterised by a "cannon-ball" distribution of multiple lobules composed of packed capillaries and pericytes; microvenular haemangioma, a cutaneous haemangioma composed of thin-walled and irregularly branching blood vessels which dissect dermal collagen; sinusoidal haemangioma, a distinctive variant of cavernous haemangioma which may be located in the subcutaneous breast tissue and then may be confused with well-differentiated angiosarcoma; "hobnail haemangioma" (targetoid haemosiderotic haemangioma), a benign vascular tumour with a distinctive clinical targetoid appearance and a hobnail cytomorphology of the prominent endothelial tumour cells; retiform haemangioendothelioma, a very recently characterised low-grade angiosarcoma occurring most commonly in the extremities of adolescents which is characterised by arborising blood vessels arranged in a retiform pattern and lined by hobnail-like prominent endothelial cells; Kaposi-like infantile haemangioendothelioma, a borderline malignant tumour of infants mimicking Kaposi's sarcoma histologically; epithelioid angiosarcoma, a highly aggressive tumour in the spectrum of epithelioid vascular lesions which stains positively for endothelial and epithelial immunohistological markers; benign lymph-angioendothelioma (progressive lymphangioma), a benign, slowly growing macule or plaque which has to be distinguished from well-differentiated angiosarcoma and Kaposi's sarcoma; and lymphangiomatosis of the limbs, a poorly recognised angiomatosis occurring in young patients and limited mainly to the limbs with a favourable prognosis.
Cardial features of the oculocerebrorenal syndrome of Lowe (OCRL) are congenital cataract, mental retardation, hypotonia and renal tubular dysfunction.
The primary biochemical defect remains unknown.
An inborn error of the inositol phosphate metabolism as a result of mutations within the OCRL gene localized on the X-chromosome is discussed.
Experimental animal models of ventricular arrhythmias have been developed to investigate the mechanisms of arrhythmogenesis in man.
Ventricular arrhythmias associated with ischaemia and infarction often cannot be elucidated by clinical studies on patients because those arrhythmias are potentially lifethreatening and their occurrence is unpredictable.
Because of additional experimental procedures and techniques that can be used in the animal laboratory, such as microelectrode recording of transmembrane action potentials and high-density optical and electrical activation mapping, animal models have provided information that cannot be obtained from clinical studies.
Studies on animal models have provided new ideas and hypotheses that have been tested in clinical studies and that have been found to be true for clinical arrhythmias.
Animal models have enabled the mechanisms of fibrillation and defibrillation to be understood and new therapeutic concepts to be developed.
The purpose of this article is to briefly review some animal models of ventricular tachycardia and fibrillation.
Some contributions that these animal studies have made to our understanding of ventricular tachyarrhythmias will be discussed.
Because of the clinical importance of coronary artery disease this article concentrates on those arrhythmias caused by myocardial ischaemia and infarction.
The authors report a rare, recently diagnosed and atypical mishap during one-lung ventilation (OLV) via a double lumen tube (DLT) and left-sided thoracotomy: an ipsilateral pneumothorax during ventilation of the right lung.
This occurred in a 63-year-old patient with chronic obstructive airway disease who was scheduled for urgent repair of a descending thoracic aortic aneurysm.
Anaesthesia and surgery were uneventful until aortic cross-clamping release.
The common presentation of increased intrathoracic extrapleural pressure owing to a pneumothorax in patients with mechanically ventilated lungs is a rapid decrease in oxygen saturation, followed or paralleled by haemodynamic deterioration.
Although the above presentation could be seen in this case, the diagnosis of a tension pneumothorax was delayed twice.
First, symptoms were initially obscured by haemodynamic changes resulting from a head-down tilt and aortic declamping.
Second, since the lack of consolidation after aortic declamping focused attention on the airway problems, complications resulting from the use of a DLT were primarily considered.
In particular, since breathing sounds were detectable initially, malposition or torsion of the DLT had to be excluded by fibre-optic bronchoscopy, which involved a further delay.
Finally, two observations led to the diagnosis of a right-sided tension pneumothorax: (1) bullae of the contralateral lung, detected during thoracotomy; (2) the finding that ventilation of both lungs and the left lung subsequently increased arterial (SaO2) and mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO2) and the circulatory status, but ventilation of the right lung caused a deterioration.
Chest radiography and insertion of a chest tube with drainage of air, thereafter, validated our hypothesis.
The time course of oxygen desaturation during OLV and tension pneumothorax was as severe as expected; the time course of haemodynamic deterioration, however, appeared quicker and had more impact than expected.
Assuming that mediastinal deviation was not hindered by contralateral intrathoracic pressure during thoracotomy, we believed that circulation should be depressed later or to a lesser extent in patients with an intraoperative pneumothorax.
Yet, during thoracotomy, decrease in cardiac filling and output during tension pneumothorax in OLV obviously results primarily from the immovability of the mediastinum owing to mediastinal fixation and is at least as decisive as the contralateral intrathoracic pressure in closed-chest patients.
In summary, a tension pneumothorax during one-lung ventilation and thoracotomy is a rare, but disastrous complication during the use of a DLT, which has not, to our knowledge, been reported previously.
We recommend that tension pneumothorax be added to the list of complications and problems during OLV by the use of a DLT, especially in patients with structural lung diseases.
The intramedullary hip screw system Classic-Nail and the Dynamic Hip Screw (DHS) were evaluated in a prospective-randomized clinical trial for operative treatment of trochanteric femur fractures.
Hundred and ten geriatric patients (mean age 82 years) were runningly included in the study (56 Classic Nail, 54 DHS).
No significant differences between the two study groups were observed with regard to treatment and follow-up data.
With the Classic-Nail one complete femur shaft fracture and one incomplete fracture occured at the tip of the nail intraoperatively and could successfully be fixed with cerclage wires.
In the DHS group two patients underwent reoperation for significant loss of reduction early postoperatively.
At an avarage follow-up of 3.7 months all fractures were healed with no difference in functional outcome between the two groups.
- Classic Nail and DHS both lead to equally good results in the operative treatment of trochanteric femur fractures.
The internal fixation of fractures of shaft bones was spread out by a group of surgeons working together with Prevot.
The principle of this method is a three point load carrying(entry point, height of fracture and cancellous bone of the metaphysis of the opposite fracture part).
From 1996 to 1999 86 children with fractures of the humerus, the fore-arm and the femur were operated in the technique of intramedullary nailing.
The fractures affected the humerus to 3.5 %, the fore-arm to 65.1 % and the femoral shaft to 31.4 %.
The postoperativ duration of stay in hospital after internal fixation of the fore-arm in the proximal and middle third lasted 7.2 days, the duration of immobilisation in a cast took 13.7 days.
96 % of the patients showed very good and good results after operation.
The average stay in hospital for patients with femoral shaft fractures was 14.4 days.
17 weeks after operation the intramedullary nails were removed.
At the time of first full weight bearing the legs showed an average shortening of 1.2 cm.
The fractures of the humerus healed without any restriction of movements.
Internal fixation is a minimal invasive operation technique with low risks and small operating trauma.
Due to the stability a early mobilisation is possible.
The reported results in the literature are all good.
The only problem can be caused by too long nails irritating the skin.
Objectives Relief of pain in therapy-resistant lateral epicondylitis through denervation and indirect decompression of the deep branch of the radial nerve through detachment of the supinator muscle only.
Physiology and age dependant changes of human bone marrow are described.
The resulting normal distribution patterns of active and inactive bone marrow including the various contrasts on different MR-sequences are discussed.
This report is based upon experience with 592 implantations of Swanson silastic spacer between 1978 and 1992.
The results of 430 cases were followed up in 1995.
Complications were observed in 31 cases and required further surgery.
In 18 cases, the spacer was resected; in 2 cases a distal amputation was necessary.
Due to pain, the spacer was changed in 11 cases, in 5 cases from a single-stem to a double-stem version.
Radiological reactions increase over time following the operation without correlation to pain.
The results in cases of rheumatoid arthritis and arthrosis disease are compared.
Approximately 80 % of the patients are free of pain and more than 90 % are satisfied with the functional results.
The results of the arthrosis group are slightly better.
Introduction: The goal of this study was to compare contrast-enhanced T1-weighted Flash and Turbo-Flash sequences with conventional spin-echo sequences as a basis for planning high-precision radiotherapy.
Methods: A total of 25 consecutive patients with different intracranial tumors and a disrupted blood-brain barrier were studied.
T1-weighted Flash, Turbo-Flash and conventional spin-echo images were evaluated after controlled 30-s infusion of 0.1 mmol/kg body weight of Gd-DTPA.
The evaluation of the three sequences included the measurement of the signal- and contrast-to-noise ratios, the visual inspection of the tumors and artifacts, and the measurement of tumor size.
Results: The signal- and contrast-to-noise ratios were significantly (P < 0.05-0.01) lower for Flash and Turbo-Flash than for conventional spin-echo sequences.
However, visual inspection of the contrast-enhancing tumors revealed in 23 and 24 of 25 lesions on Flash and Tu-rbo-Flash images, respectively, good or very good tumor visibility when compared with conventional spin-echo images with a reduction of imaging time by a factor of 7-8.
Flash and Turbo-Flash sequences were more prone to susceptibility artifacts, conventional spin-echo sequences more to pulsation artifacts in the posterior fossa.
Tumor sizes were comparable in all three techniques.
Conclusion: At present, conventional spin-echo images are superior to fast Flash and ultrafast Turbo-Flash sequences as a basis for accurate target volume definition in high-precision radiotherapy.
However, fast Flash and Turbo-Flash images may be a practicable alternative to conventional spin-echo images for tumors in the posterior fossa or in patients unable to tolerate a stereotactic fixation device.
Despite some limitations, Turbo-Flash sequences enable fast dynamic MR imaging combined with an acceptable morphology, which may be sufficient for target volume planning in high-precision radiotherapy.
Cystic tumors of the neck are usually cysts, inflamatory masses, lymph nodes, benign and malignant tumors or metastases.
Ectopic salivary tissue is a rather rare but clinically important malformation.
Accessory and aberrant tissue can be identified histologically.
There may be an association with lymphatic tissue.
Possible complications include inflammation as well as the development of benign and in rare cases malignant salivary gland tumors.
We report on two patients who underwent surgical treatment under the tentative diagnosis of epidermal cysts which histologically turned out to be ectopic parotid tissue.
Nucleotides are low molecular weight biological compounds that play major roles in almost all-biological processes.
Cell nucleic acids and nucleotides are continuously synthesised, degraded and salvaged.
The body's pools derive from three potential sources: synthesis de novo, salvage (recycling of preformed bases) and the diet.
It is generally accepted that de novo synthesis of both purines and pyrimidines from amino acid precursors is capable of supporting the cellular needs for nucleic acid synthesis.
When protein intake is decreased or in situations in which there are a high demand of nucleotides synthesis (after gut injury, after surgical trauma, sepsis, rapid growth: pregnancy or newborn infants, etc.)
some tissues with a rapid turnover (gut and immune system) may increase the salvage of exogenous nucleotides coming from the diet.
Therefore, nucleotides may become conditionally essential nutrients.
This article discusses the possible beneficial effects of dietary nucleotides on small intestine (maturation and recovery) and gut microflora, lipid and hepatic metabolism and on the immune system.
Human milk is the best source of nucleotides for young infants and the nucleotide/nucleoside profile of it shows a substantial predominance for pyrimidines as compared to purines.
Moreover, pyrimidine nucleotides seem to be better preserved in breast milk during storage in the breast and during digestion in the small intestine and they are more absorbed and incorporated into tissue RNA, as compared to purine ones.
Additional research should be done to improve the design of nucleotides supplemented infant formulas.
This includes: 1) to investigate in vivo if the incorporation of dietary nucleotides in tissue RNA is enhanced in situations of stress or rapid growth and 2) to study the biological effects of individually administered purine and pyrimidine nucleotides.
Parkinson's disease (PD) causes significant expense for the national health care system due to its chronic progressive course, the duration of the disease, the high prevalence and the devastating prognosis.
In Germany more than DM 320 million are spent for drugs to alleviate parkinsonian symptoms.
The aim of this study was to calculate the economic burden of PD by assessing direct medical costs.
Forty patients suffering from idiopathic PD were interviewed at an office of neurological specialists and at an outpatient movement disorder clinic about their use of health care resources 3 months prior to the study.
The total annual costs reported were DM 14,500, consisting of DM 6500 for drug therapy and DM 8000 for other medical services, including hospital inpatient care (DM 5600), outpatient care (DM 700), medical sundries (DM 1100) and physiotherapy (DM 600).
The costs were positively correlated to the extent of the disease (Hoehn and Yahr stage; HY) and the occurrence of motor fluctuations/dyskinesias.We found that both drug-therapy expenses and total medical costs doubled from HYI to HYIV.
The rarely employed s.c. therapy with apomorphine additionally increased the costs of drug therapy in HYV.
The occurrence of fluctuations/ dyskinesias also increased medical expenses by approximately a factor of two.
Indirect burden due to increased days off of work, unemployment and earlier retirement are also significant in Parkinson's disease.
This study oncludes that a treatment which could prevent or retard disease progression as well as a treatment that delays or reduces motor complications would not only ameliorate the situation of patients suffering from PD, but would also lead to significant reductions in cost for the national health care system.
The cryopreservation of human ovarian tissue is essentially intended to maintain fertility and endocrinological function in female cancer patients and female patients at increased risk of early menopause.
After having been frozen and subsequently thawed, the tissue can, ideally, be transplanted to its original site, where it leads to spontaneous fertilisation.
Heterotopic transplantations are also discussed as autografts or xenotransplants in SCID mice.
In addition to the use of whole tissue, the isolation of individual follicles and their in vitro maturation (IVM) are discussed.
As in the case of heterotopic transplantation of ovarian tissue, pregnancy can only be achieved in these cases by in vitro fertilisation of the matured oocytes.
Although considerable progress has already been made in both directions, these are still, at the present time, experimental processes that require further in-depth investigation prior to widespread clinical application.
In addition to its use following the cryopreservation of ovarian tissue, IVM of immature oocytes also plays a significant role in promoting current methods of assisted reproduction.
The successful maturation of immature oocytes could lead to improved assessment of the oocytes obtained by follicular puncture and to a reduction in the incidence and risk of ovarian stimulation.
IVM is therefore expected to broaden the spectrum of individual treatment regimens as in the case of PCOS patients, for instance, increasing treatment efficacy by the additional acquisition of immature oocytes or by "rescuing" IVF cycles with unintentionally immature oocytes.
Background: Transconjunctival peribulbar anesthesia is reported to permit better identification of the bulbar limits because of a better view into the fornix; it is also said to be less painful compared to transcutaneous peribulbar anesthesia.
The aim of our study was to compare the two injection techniques.
The German Registry for Hearing Loss in Children (DZH) processes nationwide data from audiological centers.
Coping with the accrued data and its subsequent management and analysis requires a high degree of security and control.
To establish a nationwide registry it is necessary at an early stage to take into consideration the legal requirements of the participating states.
Use of the DZH as an example demonstrates how a pragmatic solution can be reached.
Special issues concerning data collection, transfer, storage and deletion, coding strategies to ensure anonymity, checking for duplicate entries, data separation, and automated data analysis and data protection are explained.
Cardiac fibroblasts are known to have high affinity corticoid receptors for aldosterone and account for the accumulation of collagen within the interstitium of the rat myocardium in acquired and genetic hypertension.
This interstitial fibrosis is an important determinant of pathologic hypertrophy in chronic heart failure.
The social environment in which obstetrics is offered today is characterized by a mentality of weariness: weariness by affluence, ignorance and by misunderstanding.
As a final result an unscientific era comes about, on which Karl Jaspers commented in 1945 that only this unscientific spirit had made National Socialism possible.
Based on the good statistical results of German obstetrics compared to those of foreign countries, it is shown that our patients' demands for "gentle" obstetrics can be combined with the requirements of safe obstetrics.
If the professional interests of doctors and midwives are joint together, "safe and gentle" obstetrics should result in the common goal of a healthy child and a happy mother.
Objectives: Due to its unique pharmacokinetics, the new esterase-metabolised opioid remifentanil results in rapid post-anaesthesia recovery.
The aim of this clinical investigation was to compare recovery times after remifentanil anaesthesia in combination with hypnotic concentrations of either propofol or isoflurane.
Dosages used in the study protocol were based on recommendations by the pharmaceutical manufacturer.
Methods: Patients (ASA status I-II) scheduled for elective arthroscopy were included in this trial.
Without premedication in the morning, anaesthesia was induced identically in both groups: remifentanil bolus (1 µg/kg), start of remifentanil-infusion (0.5 µg/kg/min), followed immediately by propofol (ca.
For maintenance of anaesthesia remifentanil (0.25 µg/kg/min) was combined with either a propofol infusion of 0.1 mg/kg/min or 0.5 MAC isoflurane (=0.6 vol.%) in O2/air.
Anaesthetic delivery was discontinued simultaneously with termination of surgery and recovery times were recorded.
Results: A total of 40 patients were studied at random in two groups of 20 each with comparable demographic data and anaesthetic technique (Tables 1 and 2).
In both groups emergence was very rapid.
Recovery times were significantly shorter for remifentanil-isoflurane than for remifentanil-propofol (Table 3): spontaneous ventilation 5.1 vs 8.1 min (P<0.05), extubation 5.5 vs. 8.6 min (P<0.02), post-anaesthesia recovery score >=9 of 10 points 6.2 vs 11.3 min (P<0.01), and arrival at PACU 16.2 vs 19.2 min (P<0.01).
Mild to moderate shivering was noted in 40% of all patients (9 cases following isoflurane, 7 following propofol).
Conclusions: Using the manufacturer's recommended dosages, emergence after remifentanil anaesthesia is more rapid with 0.5 MAC isoflurane than with 0.1 mg/kg/min propofol.
These results are most probably due to the different pharmacological properties of both co-anaesthetics, especially the applied dosages, and to different interactions with remifentanil.
Present clinical experience suggests that a further dose reduction, especially for propofol, is possible.
For both remifentanil groups emergence was remarkably rapid between return of consciousness and the awake state (on-off phenomenon), which might contribute to post-anaesthesia safety.
Exposure of the skin to ultraviolet irradiation is an important risk factor for the development of malignant melanoma, with UVA possibly playing an important role.
Hereditary factors are also relevant.
In the dysplastic nevus syndrome a genetic instability has been shown by different methods.
In xeroderma pigmentosum the DNA repair defect is thought to be responsible for the high incidence of malignant melanoma.
Frequent and non-random changes in certain chromosomes have been demonstrated in melanoma cells.
These might contain sequences that control melanoma growth or melanoma suppressor genes.
Especially the short arm of chromosome 9 is thought to contain one of these genes.
This hypothesis is supported by a genetic linkage analysis in melanoma families and the demonstration of a germ line deletion of the locus 9p21 in a patient with eight primary melanomas.
Changes in known tumor suppressor genes and oncogenes have also been reported in melanoma, but no consistent sequence of genetic events is known.
Neuropsychological studies could demonstrate increased risk for impaired attention and short term memory as well as a general reduced information processing speed in childhood's epilepsy.
Up to now it is not totally understood if focal EEG-pathology represents a specific cognitive deficit strongly related to the corresponding hemisphere's functions or represents a less lateralized but more general cognitive deficit of both cerebral hemispheres.
In a sample of 44 pediatric patients with epilepsy we studied sequential and simultaneous cognitive information processing.
As a major result a general decreased function in cognitive information processing (more sequential than simultaneous) has been found.
There was no correlation with the localization of an EEG-Focus nor with the hand preference.
According to previous studies patients with an increased number of medical drugs or with presence of neuroradiological lesions are at greatest risk for cognitive impairment.
Our data indicate a possible affection of underlying metamemory functions.
The aim of this prospective and randomized study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of a reduced shock strength in transvenous implantable defibrillator therapy.
So far clinical data concerning the safety margin of the shock energy in ICD therapy do not exist.
The shock energy tested during long-term follow-up in this study was twice the intraoperatively measured defibrillation threshold (DFT).
A total number of 176 consecutive patients representing a typical cohort of ICD patients were evaluated.
All patients received a non-thoracotomy lead system (CPI, Endotak 0070, 0090) and a biphasic cardioverter-defibrillator with the ability to store episodes (Cardiac Pacemakers Inc., Ventac TM PRx II, PRx III).
The intraoperative defibrillation threshold (DFT) was evaluated in a step-down protocol (15, 10, 8, 5 J) and hat to be <=15 J for inclusion into the study.
The lowest effective energy terminating induced ventricular fibrillation had to be confirmed and was defined as DFT+ augmented defibrillation threshold.
The DFT+ value was tested immediately after successful implantation, at discharge, and after a follow-up period of one year.
Prior to implantation the patients were randomized into two groups.
The energy of the first shock in the study group was programmed at twice DFT+ and in the control group at the maximum energy output (34 J).
The efficacy of the first shock and its reproducibility in DFT testings and in spontaneous episodes during long-term follow-up of the study group were compared to those in the control group.
A DFT+ value was found to be <=15 J in 166 of 176 patients (94%).
The DFT+ in the study group was 9.6+/-3.2; in control group 10.1+/-.35 J.
The prohability of successful defibrillation at DFT+ level after one year was 84%.
The success rate of the first shock meant to terminate induced ventricular fibrillation (VF) was 99.5% in the study group (217 of 218 episodes) and 99% in the control group (201 of 203 episodes).
During follow-up of 24+/-9 months spontaneous episodes in the study group, 83/86 (96.5) monomorphic ventricular tachycardias (MVT) and 38/40 (95%) VF-episodes were converted successfully by the 2x DFT+ shock.
In the control group the first shock was successful in 151/156 (96.8%) spontaneous MVTs and in 30/33 (91%) VF episodes.
The efficacy of the first shock was not influenced by clinical data such as the underlying cardiac disease, left ventricular function, ongoing antiarrhythmic therapy with amiodarone, or the number of spontaneous episodes per day or by the DFT itself.
At a mean follow-up of two years there was no significant difference between the two groups concerning the incidence of sudden cardiac death (2.4% in the study group vs. 3.8% in the control group).
In conclusion programming the first shock with the ICD lead system used in this study at 2x DFT+ is as efficient as a shock energy of 34 J in order to terminate induced and spontaneous episodes of VT/VF.
Thus, the safety of ICD-therapy is not impaired when programming the shock energy at the 2x DFT+ value.
Culpable deficits of the preoperative information cause a complete illegality of the whole medical intervention and lead to liability for any resulting damage.
In cases of controversy it's the physician's due to prove the correct preoperative information.
To reduce these liability-risks a computer based information system has been developed.
With its help an working sheet is provided which is individually adjusted for the patient.
Based upon this record the real preoperative information takes place.
After the patient signed the record the physician keeps it at his disposal for proving the contents of the preoperative information.
The conception's use over many years shows that overlooking essential aspects and misunderstanding can grossly be excluded for the patient and a high quality of information can be reached.
In vitro culture of peritoneal explants of neonatal rats after previous application of agents simulating wound antisepsis is a sensitive screening method for the determination of the tissue compatibility of local wound antiinfectives.
Two test models are differentiated: (1) separated peritoneal explants as a model for chronic or deep wounds and (2) peritoneum in situ in the experimental animal with subsequent extraction and cultivation of the explants.
Considering the present state of knowledge the following conclusions can be drawn regarding antisepsis of wounds: Lavasept (0.1 %) may be classified as the agent of choice for deep and chronic wounds, for drip-suck irrigation and for antiinfective lavage of body cavities inclusively for peritoneal lavage (0,05 %).
Taurolidin is antiseptically effective in long term application ( > 6 h), and because of its antitoxic effect as well as lack of cytotoxicity it is especially suitable for peritoneal lavage.
Betaisodona solution is very well suited for superficial contaminated wounds and can be used in a dilution of 1 : 10 for short-term rinsing of deep wounds, including body cavities but not for peritoneal lavage.
Ethanol causes no inhibition of explant growth and therefore retains its importance in wound antisepsis.
Pain is a widely occurring disturbance of well-being and has serious consequences for the quality of life of patients suffering from acute or chronic pain.
Thus, pain makes high demands on the health system.
For the first time in the Federal Republic of Germany the National Health Interview and Examination Survey allows to make representative statements concerning the prevalence of pain, its intensity, frequency, duration and localisation.
Furthermore, the results enable to differentiate according to age, gender, and social classes.
The SF-36, used as an instrument to measure health related quality of life, has been employed to demonstrate the overwhelming significance of pain for the well-being of the population.
In this publication the connection between certain disease syndromes like migraine and arthrosis and the prevalence of different qualities of pain is investigated.
Additional more complex evaluation of the epidemiological data on pain are in preparation.
In order to get an effective therapy of Tinea capitis drug must penetrate into the follicles.
This can not be obtained exclusively by local treatment so that a combination with systemic therapy is necessary.
Griseofulvin is the drug of choice in childhood until now.
Death may occur while a fleeing or resisting suspect is taken into custody by the police.
We report about this type of acute death in two males.
In both cases, a cocaine intoxication was taken as the cause of death despite an initial suspicion of a direct association between the death and police measures (e.g.
neck compression or "headlock", chest compression).
From the Institute's autopsy material we selected another 12 cases with monointoxication by cocaine as the cause of death of as a secondary finding for comparison.
Of the 12 cases 5 were gunshot injuries and 4 were classified as suicide.
The analysis suggested an increased willingness to apply force against themselves or others under the influence of cocaine.
In both cases, cardiac arrest occurred suddenly and unexpectedly for all those involved and who were unaware of any acute life-threatening situation because of the extreme attempts of the suspects to flee or resist arrest.
Attention should be given to these types of cases during the training of police officers.
Abstract  Hepatitis C antibodies have been detected in more then half of all autopsies of drug-related deaths in a 2-year period since November 1995 in Aachen, Germany.
It was of interest whether there is a risk of HCV transmission from the corpses.
The presence of HCV-RNA indicates infectiosity in the living but this may be different post-mortem.
To our knowledge no case of HVC infection from a corpse has been reported so far.
Non-traumatic duodenocaval fistulae are rare, but may be the source of massive gastrointestional bleeding with associated fever and sepsis.
These fistulae result from penetrating duodenal peptic ulcers or right nephrectomy and subsequent radiation to the upper abdomen.
The outcome depends on early diagnosis and surgery before a potentially fatal hemorrhage occurs.
The therapy of choice includes closure of the fistula and repair of the duodenum and inferior vena cava.
We describe the seventh case with radiogenic duodenal ulcer.
Gastrointestinal bleeding occurred 10 years after radical nephrectomy and radiation (60 Gy).
The patient survived following partial pancreatoduodenectomy (Whipple).
Purpose: Branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO) induces variable functional deficits depending on the grade of vascular occlusion and its localisation.
Theses deficiences are not easily defined by visual acuity measurements.
However, microperimetry offers topical mapping of retinal function, allowing precise documentation of the intensity and dimension of retinal functional loss in BRVO.
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is rare but beset with a high mortality rate.
In recent years, however, a trend towards higher survival rates has been observed.
High inspiratory oxygen concentrations, large tidal volumes, and high peak inspiratory airway pressures applied during mechanical ventilation have been identified as harmful to the lung and can contribute to the progression of ARDS.
This had led to reconsideration of the sequelae of ventilatory therapy.
Mechanical ventilation and other adjunctive strategies in ARDS have changed from the conventional approach aiming at normalisation of physiological ventilatory parameters to an elaborated approach that intends to protect the ventilated lung, prevent oxygen toxicity, recruit the infiltrated atelectatic and consolidated lung and reduce the anatomical and alveolar dead space.
This new approach consists of various forms of pressure-controlled mechanical ventilation with PEEP and permissive hypercapnia, body position changes, and inhalation of nitric oxide.
Should these procedures fail to improve impaired gas exchange, extracorporeal membrane oxygenation is an additional therapeutic option.
None of these therapeutic procedures, however, has been tested against traditional standard treatment in a classical randomised controlled trial.
The following review focuses on the latest insights into the pathophysiology, diagnosis, and treatment of ARDS.
Femoral neck fractures are frequent fractures of the elderly.
They can be treated by the use of dynamic hip screws, lag screws, bipolar hemiprotheses or total hip replacement.
The results are markedly influenced by the timing of the operation and the choice of the implant.
Using the Garden classification of femoral neck fracture we demonstrate a different therapeutic approach according to Garden stadium I-IV.
Stool frequency after ileal pouch-anal anastomosis (IPAA) is about 5/day after adaptation during the first year.
It depends on stool volume and pouch capacity, not on the design of the pouch.
In most cases evacuation is spontaneous and as complete as in healthy rectum.
67 % of patients are perfectly continent, while 19 % have to wear pads due to intermittent leakage.
Complete incontinence is reported in 0-4 % of the patients.
Preservation of the anal transitional zone by the double-stapling technique does not improve functional results when compared to endoanal mucosectomy or intersphincteric resection.
Impairment of continence is caused by damage of the internal sphincter with consecutive decrease of the pouch-anal pressure gradient.
Despite altered reflex activity, stool discrimination is preserved in most patients.
The loss of colonic water and electrolyte absorption is compensated by decreased renal excretion.
Alterations in bile acid metabolism are lower after IPAA than after ileostomy.
Bacterial overgrowth may lead to deterioration of the functional results.
Background: Methods from the area of virtual reality are used in oral and maxillofacial surgery for the planning and three-dimensional individual simulation of surgeries.
Thirty-seven patients with chronic sinus pilonidalis were treated after total excision by Dufourmentel flap.
We saw seroma complications in three and wound infections in two cases.
Patients stayed in hospital 6.3 days on an average and were able to work after 2.5 weeks.
The method is easy to use.
We have not seen a return to sinus problems in any of this cases.
We describe a patient who was admitted to hospital because of hypoglycemic convulsions at the age of 6 months.
Diagnostics revealed that the hypoglycemic episodes were caused by glycogen synthase deficiency.
Glycogen synthase deficiency its a rare cause of fasting hypoglycemia in childhood associated with normal production of ketone bodies.
It is characterized by supranormal increase of glucose and lactate in blood after a meal or an oral glucose tolerance test.
Diagnosis is confirmed by demonstration of a reduced activity of glycogen synthase in liver tissue, and lately also by identification of pathogenic mutations in the glycogensynthase gene (GYS2-gene).
Hypoglycemic episodes can be prevented by offering frequent protein-rich meals during the day and a late evening meal with uncooked corn starch.
Although most subacromial decompressions are performed arthroscopically, rotator cuff repair is still performed using an open or mini-open procedure.
Arthroscopic techniques have improved in the last decade, however, so that rotator cuff repair can also be performed arthroscopically.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has become a well-established method for the diagnosis of diseases of the heart and the great vessels.
Almost 20% of all patients cannot be completely examined by transthoracic echocardiography.
In this patient group, MRI can be used as a second line technique to provide important diagnostic information not obtainable by echocardiography.
However, there are clinical problems for which MRI may be used as the first line technique such as complex congenital heart disease, diseases of the great vessels, pericardial disease or cardiac tumors.
MRI is undergoing rapid technical improvement and this will further improve the diagnostic utility of the technique, especially in patients with coronary artery disease.
In the last 7 years we have performed 220 infrainguinal vein bypasses associated with critical limb ischemia.
All patients were prospectively controlled in a follow-up program 3 - 72 months postoperatively.
The patients were divided into two groups: patients with diabetes mellitus (35%, group 1) and patients without diabetes mellitus (65%, group 2).
There was no difference in sex, age or localization of distal anastomosis (supra- or infragenicular) between the two groups.
The primary and the primary-assisted patency rates were not statistically different after 60 months.
There was a significant difference in limb salvage.
The limb salvage of group 1 was 75% after 60 months, while the limb salvage of group 2 was 95% (P = 0.0045).
The rate of major amputations was significantly higher in group 1 (15.6%) than in group 2 (4.9%, P = 0.007).
The indication for amputation was persistent foot infection.
A 24-year-old woman with lymph vessel dysplasia had experienced a progressive edema of her legs since her second year of life and progressive facial edema for the past year.
She also had telangiectasias and papules on the background of a diffuse erythema as well as marked seborrhea on her face.
Histopathological examination of a representative facial lesion revealed a granulomatous dermatitis with periadnexal distribution mainly consisting of lymphocytes and histiocytes.
In addition, there was a moderate fibrosis of the dermis with numerous mast cells.
By duplex ultrasound, a diagnosis of a massive edema of the legs without evidence for chronic venous insufficiency was made.
The clinical and histopathological findings were consistent with solid persistent erythema and edema of the face associated with rosacea and lymph vessel dysplasia.
The chronic course, absence of serological abnormalities and nonspecific histopathological features as well as resistance to therapy are the most important diagnostic cirteria of this disease also known as Morbihan's disease.
The cervical spine is an extremely complex functional unit and has always been the subject of impassioned discussions among surgeons, orthopedic specialists and neurologists.
In the presence of injuries affecting this section of the spine, which sometimes have grave consequences - including implications for legal insurance aspects, neurologists are usually at the end of the line when it comes to diagnosis and treatment.
In fact, in view of the clinical and technical neurophysiological options available to neurologists, it would be desirable for them to be involved as early as possible.
In this paper the relative value of neurology, compared with orthopedics and surgery, in the diagnosis and treatment of whiplash injury to the cervical spine is discussed.
The newer options available - particularly in neurophysiology - are highlighted, as are the differential diagnosis and problems concerned with official expert assessments, which also involve other specialties.
A 19-year-old male patient with chronic cutaneous leishmaniosis was treated topically with paromomycin sulphate (15%) and methylbenzethonium chloride (12%) in petrolatum album.
After application twice daily for two periods of 32 and 44 days the lesions were completely healed.
Previous treatment for 9 months with ketoconazole (400 mg/day) together with the topical application of thiabendazole (2.5%) in base had been unsuccessful.
No major side effects were observed after paromomycin sulphate application.
Eight patients with spontaneous spinal epidural hemorrhages are presented.
All eight initially had suffered from severe neck or back pain.
In seven cases, progressive neurological deficits had developed, some of which led to complete paraplegia.
On all eight patients operations were performed.
After an average of 11 weeks' follow-up, full recovery from the preoperative pain and neurological deficits could be seen in 6 of the patients.
The confusion of scientific, economic, juridical and professional contexts is the reason for the present uneasiness within therapeutic culture.
The author pleads for autonomy of these contexts to defend the profession reasonably against powerful overdetermination by other contexts.
The debate about EST ("empirically supported therapy") is being drawn upon to show that the list of criteria for differentiation of effective and ineffective therapies is not warranted.
Scientific or economic dominance claims might have deteriorating effects in the professional fields, as well-known researchers meanwhile fear.
In economic contexts the aim is efficiency, in professional contexts it is quality.
To develop own quality measures has the aim to promote the profession as a learning organization.
This could help to rise professionals' self-confidence.
Procalcitonin is the propeptide of calcitonin devoid of hormonal activity.
Normally, procalcitonin is produced in the C-cells of the thyroid gland.
In healthy humans procalcitonin levels are undetectable (<0.1 ng/ml).
During severe generalized infections (bacterial, parasitic and fungal) with systemic manifestations, procalcitonin levels may rise up to 100 ng/ml.
In contrast, severe viral infections or inflammatory reactions of non-infectious origin do not or very moderately increase procalcitonin levels.
The exact site of procalcitonin production is not exactly known but even large amounts of procalcitonin released during infections do not lead to an increase in plasma calcitonin level or activity.
In this retrospective study, oncologic and functional results of 24 patients treated for glomus jugulare tumor stages C and D are reported.
The surgical approach used was a combined transmastoid-transcervical approach, which was modified according to individual tumor growth.
As needed, this was combined with a transtemporal or retrosigmoid approach.
Complete tumor removal resulted in a cure rate of 100%.
Surgically induced cranial nerve palsies developed in 38% of the patients.
In 54% of cases it was possible to retain middle ear function.
Seven patients had incomplete tumor removal requiring postoperative irradiation, with tumor progression occurring in 2 patients.
Radical tumor removal was modified by efforts to reduce mutilating resections.
These results show that individually tailored and combined multidirectional surgical approaches can allow total tumor removal to be performed with lower morbidity.
Electron beam CT, which does not require mechanical movement of an X-ray tube, has a temporal resolution which exceeds that of conventional computed tomography by a factor of about ten.
Axial images of the heart can be acquired within 50 to 100 ms with a spatial resolution below 0.5 mm2 and permit precise visualization of all cardiac structures.
ECG-triggered acquisition of 30 to 40 axial images (3 mm slice thickness) in a short inspiratory breathhold allows one to sample a 3-dimensional volume data set which covers the complete heart.
Overall acquisition times are approximately 30 to 50 seconds.
While electron beam CT in general permits a complete cardiac investigation, including morphology, function, and perfusion, the method's most important application is non-invasive imaging of the coronary arteries.
Without contrast enhancement, coronary calcification by EBCT currently constitutes the most sensitive non-invasive marker for the presence even of very early forms of coronary atherosclerosis.
Intraveneous injection of contrast agent during image acquisition additionally permits the selective visualization of the coronary artery lumen and detection of significant stenoses.
This method is especially well suited in the follow-up of coronary interventions and coronary bypass grafting.
Breathhold and movement artifacts, superposition of coronary arteries and veins, as well as severe coronary calcifications currently constitute the method's main problems.
In spite of these limitations, electron beam CT has been shown to permit clinically valuable non-invasive investigations of the coronary arteries, which may be further refined as technology progresses.
Despite the availability of diagnostic modalities such as transesophageal echocardiography, computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging up to 30% of patients with acute aortic dissection remain undiagnosed before death.
A novel immunoassay of serum smooth muscle myosin as a potential diagnostic tool for the detection of aortic dissection.
The immunoassay was applied in two patients with an acute chest pain syndrome but no initial suspicion of aortic disease.
In both patients myocardial ischemia was ruled out by laboratory, electrocardiographic and echocardiographic examination.
In the first patient both dilation of the aortas and long-standing arterial hypertension were known; however, it was not before 48h until dissection was suspected and a spiral-CT was performed demonstrating a localized ascending aortic dissection.
At this time (48 h after onset of symptoms) the smooth muscle myosin heavy chain concentration in the serum was close to normal.
In the other patient there was neither a suggestive history nor any clinical sign of aortic dissection.
Widening of the abdominal was the key to the incidental diagnosis of a clinically unsuspected type B dissection.
The serum test 12 h after onset of pain revealed elevated (diagnostic) serum levels of smooth muscle myosin heavy chains.
Recurrent abdominal pain is found in 10-25% of school-aged children, thus being one of the most frequent complaints in childhood.
Despite that, our knowledge about this syndrome is still very incomplete.
Following oral surgery, there are sometimes disturbances in wound healing.
It was the aim of this investigation to look for relationships between the composition of saliva and disturbed wound healing.
Resting as well as stimulated fasting whole saliva was collected from 96 patients (19 to 53 years of age) prior to oral surgery.
Flow rate, pH, standard bicarbonate, total buffer bases, peroxidase, lysozyme, thiocyanate, secretory immunoglobulin A, lactoferrin, total protein, tissue type plasminogen activator, and plasminogen activator inhibitor were determined.
The salivary data of eight patients who suffered from disturbed wound healing were compared to the data of 20 randomly selected patients with normal wound healing.
Patients with disturbed wound healing revealed increased activities and secretion rates for peroxidase in resting saliva.
In stimulated saliva, decreased secretion rates for thiocyanate and total protein were found.
Not a single salivary factor was able to discriminate both groups of patients with sufficient accuracy, but with a combination of tissue type plasminogen activator, peroxidase, plus secretory immunoglobulin A measurements from resting whole saliva a clearly improved and acceptable discrimination of the two patient groups was possible.
A discriminant function including six salivary factors could be used to completely separate both groups.
Nuclear imaging methods provide noninvasive indexes of myocardial function, perfusion, and metabolism and are well accepted in clinical cardiology.
Advances in prevention and treatment of cardiac disease have resulted in decreasing cardiovascular mortality in industrialized nations.
The improvement in therapeutic options has increased the demand for diagnostic tests that might guide clinical decision making.
Information beyond the pure anatomic characterization of coronary stenoses is required.
Nuclear imaging can be used for early detection and monitoring of the severity and extent of disease.
The prognostic potential of such functional testing is being increasingly appreciated and used to guide therapy, thereby resulting in improvement of the quality and cost-effectiveness of the workup of patients with cardiovascular disease.
Extensive clinical validation has resulted in growing acceptance of these techniques.
Furthermore, ongoing improvement of imaging techniques and development of new radiopharmaceuticals will pave the way for disease-specific, molecular-targeted cardiac imaging in the future.
Epidural anaesthesia for elective caesarean section can have advantages over general anaesthesia.
The anaesthesiologist can avoid endotracheal intubation as well as fetal depression following placental transfer of systemic anaesthetics.
However, despite reaching an effective blockade preoperatively, intraoperative discomfort and pain may occur during epidural anaesthesia with local anaesthetics alone, necessitating supplemental systemic analgesics or even conversion to general anaesthesia [21].
Addition of epidural fentanyl has been shown to improve onset and quality of perioperative analgesia without evident side effects for mother or newborn [24].
Nevertheless, administration of epidural opioids before cord clamping is still hotly debated, some fearing maternal and or neonatal depression [6, 26].
The aim of the present study was to investigate the quality of analgesia, associated side effects and the resulting maternal and neonatal plasma opiate concentrations after a single preoperative addition of 0.1 mg fentanyl to epidural bupivacaine analgesia in comparison to epidural bupivacaine analgesia alone.
The quality of the morphological analysis of myocardial and coronary alterations depends essentially on the method chosen for the heart dissection.
Even if previous postmortem coronary angioplasty is not feasible, the best results are obtained by transverse sectioning of the ventricles in a bread-loaf fashion subsequent to formalin-fixation and serial cross-sectioning of the coronary arteries, with decalcification in addition if necessary.
The distribution pattern of disseminated myocardial necrosis, the longitudinal, circumferential and transmural extent of infarction, its age and sequelae and its correlation to the coronary supplying areas can be evaluated with better accuracy than by dissecting the heart chambers according to the flow of blood.
Cross-sectioning of coronary arteries with preservation of their luminal shape allows proper examination of the degree and extent of luminal narrowing, plaque hemorrhage, parietal and occluding thrombi and the effects and complications of angioplastic procedures or bypass surgery.
Transverse sectioning of the heart is a prerequisite for adequate examination following sudden cardiac death and short-term territorial ischemia.
Full-thickness samples of the ventricular walls, taken systematically with respect to coronary narrowing and coronary supplying areas, enable identification of early myocardial damage.
Total hip replacement is one of the most successful procedures in surgery.
In Germany there is a great variety of cemented and uncemented implants with different principles of fixation.
We reviewed the different principles, with particular reference to long-term clinical outcome, and discuss the most popular systems available in Germany.
Despite many new developments which have been made in the field of cementless hip replacement, cemented total hip arthroplasty will remain the "gold standard" until prospective long-term data (>15 years) of cementless systems become available.
To summarize current knowledge on surgical therapy in patients with inflammatory bowel disease (Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis and diverticulitis).
Procalcitonin is a propeptide of calcitonin.
It is usually not detectable in healthy volunteers but appears in high concentrations in the serum of patients with severe bacterial, parasitic or fungal infection.
In contrast, procalcitonin levels do not or only moderately increase during viral infections or during non-infectious systemic inflammatory states.
Because of these properties, procalcitonin has been proposed to serve as a marker of severe infections and sepsis.
Increased procalcitonin levels have recently been shown to indicate the severity of systemic infection with increasing specificity.
Normally, procalcitonin is produced in the C-cells of the thyroid gland.
The origin of the high levels of procalcitonin in septic conditions is not fully understood.
Although procalcitonin has drawn attention as a marker of severe systemic infections, a recent study suggests it may also be a mediator of sepsis.
More studies are needed to uncover the nature and pathophysiological role of this molecule.
Fractures of the hand sceleton are common injuries.
These are or are associated with phalangeal fractures.
Kirschner wires can be used for osteosynthesis, but can cause lesions of periphereal finger structures.
The aim of our study was to record the incidence of lesions in peripherial structures of the fingers caused by retrograde crossed inserted Kirschner wires of 1.0, 1.25, 1.4 and 1.6 mm diameter into the middle and proximal phalanges of the long fingers and the proximal phalanx of the thumb of 120 fresh cadaver hands.
We found an increase of insertion attempt frequency and an increasing number of lesions with increasing Kirschner wire diameter.
Because of these findings Kirschner wires of 1.0 or 1.25 mm diameter should be prefered to prevent the periphereal functional finger structures.
Fucosidosis, a rare lysosomal storage disease due to nearly complete deficiency of -L- fucosidase, was diagnosed in two unrelated male German patients who exhibited typical symptoms of this disorder including mental retardation, dysostosis multiplex, vacuolization of lymphocytes and progressive neurologic deterioration by the age of 3.2 and 4 years, respectively.
In both cases, activity of -L-fucosidase in leukocytes and cultivated fibroblasts was negligible.
DNA analysis revealed a nonsense mutation (G401X) in exon 7 of the fucosidase gene; this leads to a premature stop codon and C-terminal deletion of 61 amino acids from the protein.
Discussion: On account of the mutation a unique PFlMI restriction site is obliterated; this simplifies molecular diagnosis of the G401X mutation.
So far, the mutation G401X has not been found in any other population.
The main reason for posttraumatic secondary brain damage is cerebral hypoxia.
Both, severity and duration of hypoxia are crucial in determining wether irreversible cerebral infarction will occur or not.
For the clinical routine, the diagnosis of hypoxia is indirectly made by low CPP, low jugularvenous oxygen saturation (SjO2) or low tissue PO2.
To minimize misleading false negative SjO2, the CT-Approach for the side of monitorig and calculation of arterial-jugularvenous lactate content for detection of anaerobic metabolism is recommended.
Targeted treatment of hypoxia according to the underlying cause is mandatory.
Primary goal is to increase cellular oxygen delivery by correction of low arterial oxygen content and elevation of regional CBF.
Within the autoregulatory range decreasing CPP causes vasodilation and increasing CPP vasoconstriction with increasing or decreasing cerebral blood volume respectively.
Initially elevation of the lower autoregulatory threshold often requires CPP 70 mmHg.
Targeted treatment of intracranial hypertension must avoid decreasing CPP.
In the early postrautmatic phase prevention of cerebral hypoxia relies on management of CBF by means of CPP and cerebral vascular resistance.
Thereafter targeted treatment of intracranial hypertension caused by cerebral edema and hypervolemia are increasingly important.
Today, orthotopic liver transplantation is the treatment of choice for the end-stage of various liver diseases, and a 1-year survival rate of 80 % and a 5-year survival rate of 70 % in elective patients without tumor are reported in international surveys.
The liver transplant programme of the Inselspital in Bern is small compared with international centres, which may raise questions about the results and the justification for such a programme.
Over a period of 66 months, 62 liver transplantations were performed in 60 patients at the Inselspital.
The hospital mortality was 3.3 %, and the 2.5-year overall survival rate was 92 % for elective cases without tumor.
After a median follow-up of 30 months, 68 % of all patients were re-integrated in housework or full- or part-time in their profession, and 83 % were independent from the help of others.
We conclude that a small liver transplant programme based only on routine resources can achieve results comparable to the international standards.
Accidental hypothermia (AH) can be defined as an unintentional decrease in core temperature below 35  °C during cold exposure by individuals without intrinsic thermoregulatory dysfunction.
Pathophysiological changes can be attributed both to the severity of hypothermia and to co-morbid factors such as trauma, submersion, intoxication and underlying diseases.
In trauma victims stratified according to the Injury Severity Score, the factor hypothermia is considered to be a poor prognostic sign for survival.
In these patients rewarming therapy should be applied as soon as possible.
In the Utrecht University Hospital, adult patients with AH are managed according to an algorithm based on their presenting hemodynamic conditions.
Patients with perfusing cardiac rhythms and systolic pressures over 80 mmHg will receive continuous arteriovenous rewarming (CAVR).
Arrested and hemodynamically instable patients are treated with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
In a 3-year period, 22 patients with AH were admitted to the emergency department.
Fourteen patients had a trauma as the cause of hypothermia.
Twenty patients were treated according to the algorithm (CAVR n = 18, CPB n = 2) and two patients were alternatively managed.
Mortality in the CAVR group was 28 % and total mortality reached 32 %.
Complications of CAVR are related to placement and removal of vascular catheters and may be severe in these patients with impaired coagulation.
CAVR permits a good access to the (trauma-) patient and rewarming can be continued synchronously with diagnosis and treatment of various injuries.
The grading of long-tubular-bone pseudarthrosis depends on the biological reaction or lack of reaction in pseudarthrosis or non-unions.
Hypertrophic and oligotrophic pseudarthrosis belongs to biologically reacting non-unions, whereas non-reacting non-unions are necrotic pseudarthrosis and defective non-unions with partial decline or complete destruction of cortical substance.
Pseudarthrosis is a serious disturbance or disorder within the regulation cycle in fracture healing, which consists of osteoregeneration, osteovascularization and stabilization.
The causes and underlying reasons for disturbance of this regulation cycle are primarily massive destruction of the biological and functional very important unity of periost, cortical substance and medullary space.
This can occur from trauma, but it happens more often from surgical procedures that do not take the biological principles of bone-healing into account.
Surgical strategies and interventions that respect the importance of periosteal tissue, cortical tissue and medullary space do fill the biological principles of fracture-healing and fracture union.
Background: Clonidine, an 2-receptor agonist, has been reported to prolong the blocking actions of local anaesthetics.
The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of spinally injected clonidine on the duration of spinal anaesthesia by mepivacaine and on the postoperative demand for analgesics.
Differentiation of an elevated, repeatedly determined platelet count (>=500x109/l) includes the discrimination between reactive causes generated by a variety of underlying conditions and a neoplastic myeloprolifera-tive disorder (CMPD).
In addition to clinical findings, the evolution of laboratory data during follow-up and histology of the bone marrow exerts a significant diagnostic impact.
Characteristic features are not only expressed by hematopoiesis, but also by the myeloid stromal compartment.
While the megakaryocyte-rich subtype of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and the 5q- syndrome (MDS) are dominated by abnormal micromegakaryocytes, in polycythemia vera (PV) this cell lineage reveals a pleomorphous appearance.
In essential thrombocythemia (ET), a prevalence of giant megakaryocytes with deeply lobulated (staghorn-like) nuclei may be encountered.
A clear-cut discrimination of ET from early (hypercellular) stages of idiopathic (primary) myelofibrosis (IMF) presenting with thrombocythemia becomes possible, provided the conspicuous atypical features of megakaryopoiesis characterizing the latter entity are taken into account.
Moreover, CML displays a predominance of the granulocytic lineage whereas PV shows a panmyelosis or trilineage proliferation, involving erythropoiesis, in particular.
In contrast, erythropoiesis is markedly reduced in CML and to a lesser degree also in IMF.
In CMPDs extreme values of iron deposits may be found, ranging from a total lack (PV) to minor amounts (CML) and a normal staining reaction (ET).
Similar results are exhibited regarding reticulin fibrosis, which is usually not present in ET, rarely observed in PV and detectable to a variable degree in CML and IMF.
Nevus cell aggregates in lymph nodes are uncommon.
This benign phenomenon may be difficult to differentiate from metastatic neoplasia.
We report the case of a 56-year-old patient who underwent breast biopsy, followed by radical mastectomy including lymphadenectomy.
Histological examination revealed solid cell aggregates as foreign tissue in the capsule of 1 of 11 identified lymph nodes devoid of any keratin immunoreaction.
Strong immunohistological staining for the S-100 protein confirmed the diagnosis of nevus cell aggregates.
We report the case of a seven year old girl presenting with varicella infection 14 days after kidney transplantation.
Cramp-like abdominal pain and a subileus were the first symptoms.
Enemas did not relieve the symptoms, and the following laparotomoy with Tenckhoff catheter explantation was performed which did not reveal any pathologic abnormalities.
Two days after the beginning of abdominal pain an unspecific papular rash developed.
Further twelve hours later skin vesicles appeared and varicella-zoster virus was isolated from their fluid.
Despite high dose administration of aciclovir and varicella-zoster immune globulin further visceral dissemination occurred and finally lead to liver failure and intravascular coagulopathy.
The patient died 18 days after kidney transplantation from multiorgan failure.
The unconscious patient presents an challenging emergency in the intensive care unit.
Patient evaluation and treatment must occur simultaneously.
After checking vital signs, deciding about cardiopulmonary resuscitation or intubation, an intravenous line must be established, blood samples collected and glucose and thiamine should be given.
The physical and neurological examination should be performed in a efficient way and must consider the following eight points: best reaction to loud commands, best motor reaction to noxious stimuli, respiratory pattern, size and reactions of pupils, eye movements, corneal and blink reflex, meningismus, muscle tone and deep tendon reflexes.
With this approach it is possible to formulate a working diagnosis, and the appropriate diagnostic steps can be performed.
A severe course of alcohol withdrawal has been observed in 28% of patients in a neurological intensive care unit due to complicating central nerve system (CNS) diseases.
In any atypical alcoholic delirium, especially with focal neurological signs, partial seizures, or decreased level of consciousness, CNS diseases like meningoencephalitis, intracranial hemorrhage, or central pontine myelinolysis must be diagnosed by computed tomography (CT) scan and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) tap.
The diagnostic and prognostic value of CT scan and CSF analysis was examined in 32 persons with alcohol withdrawal syndrome or delirium tremens.
Neurological complications and cerebral convulsions at the beginning of delirium tremens appear to predispose the patient to a protracted clinical course and necessary mechanical ventilation.
Blood-CSF barrier permeability is increased in 70% of alcohol withdrawal patients and that also seems to be a marker of a prolonged clinical course.
Cerebral atrophy as shown in CT scan does not play a role in predicting clinical course.
In our experience, CT examination or lumbar puncture is not necessarily recommended if clinical signs are typical for alcohol delirium.
Recently, an implantable hearing aid for rehabilitation of sensorineural hearing loss has been developed.
One component of the device is the microphone for implantation into the posterior canal wall.
The membrane of the microphone can be covered by skin, cartilage, or fascia, avoiding reduction in sound transmission at the same time.
In the study presented here, the microphone was implanted into 50 cadaver specimens of human temporal bone.
Localization of the microphone was determined by the anatomical situation of the facial nerve.
The microphone and the piezoelectric transducer could be implanted in 78% of the temporal bones after total mastoidectomy.
In the final version of the microphone, the size was 4.5 mm and total weight 400 mg.
Collagen vascular diseases, representing systemic soft tissue disorders, may cause a broad spectrum of pathologic changes of the respiratory tract.
The type and extent of manifestations can vary considerably among individuals and entities.
This survey describes the chest radiographic and, in particular, high-resolution computed tomographic (HRCT) findings of individual lesions of the respiratory tract.
It includes fibrosing alveolitis (alveolitis, interstitial pneumonia, pulmonary fibrosis) and bronchial (bronchitis/bronchiolitis, bronchiectasis), pleural and vascular manifestations, as well as lymphadenopathy and abnormalities related to therapy.
We present typical patterns of changes in progressive systemic sclerosis (PSS, scleroderma), systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), mixed connective tissue disease (MCTD, Sharp syndrome), Sjögren syndrome, overlap syndrome and rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Furthermore, we describe findings which are specific for individual entities such as esophageal involvement in PSS, acute pneumonitis and pulmonary hemorrhage in SLE, lymphoproliferative disease in Sjögren syndrome and necrobiotic nodules in RA.
The psychodynamics of patients with severe personality disorders, eating disorders, or "hysterical" symptoms are increasingly understood as ways of coping with traumatic experiences in childhood or adolescence such as abuse or violence.
Dissociation with induced depersonalisation, derealisation, and personification of objects as only good or only bad is the central coping mechanism during and after a traumatic experience.
Unassimilated memories of traumata have a retraumatizing effect and call for defence through eating disorders, substance abuse, self-harming behaviour, or social acting-out.
Against this psychodynamic background we describe a method of trauma-therapy which uses experiences of hypnotherapy and of Guided affective Imagery.
In the preparatory phase a secure inner space and contact to inner helpers are established in the imagination using a resource-oriented approach.
The actual trauma-therapy consists of a gradual leading-up to the traumatic scenes through consistent, minimally retraumatizing confrontation, followed by consolation and the ability to let go.
In the final phase there is a return to resource-oriented creativity and concrete life planning.
All patients of the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery at the Erfurt Hospital with odontogenic pyogenic infections have been analyzed in a retrospective study over a period of 10 years, from 1987 to 1997.
This included questions concerning frequency, seriousness and treatment of these infections, social changes in the environ prove effects about the referral behaviour and the course.
Odontogenic pyogenic infections are mixed infections.
Aerobic agents such as hemolytic streptococcuses and staphylococcuses as well as anaerobic bacteria and  fungi can be involved.
Cephalosporine, aminobenzylpenicillin in combination with -lactamase inhibitor, alcylaminopenicillin and lincosamide are recommended based on analysis of infection resistance as first choice medications with carbapeneme as a reserve antibiotic.
Hospitals are competing with each other for the limited financial resources available in the health care sector.
Comparison of hospitals is legally required (BPflV § 5) to improve financial efficiency in the health care sector and make competition between hospitals keener, while also objectivizing it.
If comparison of the hospitals is really to enhance profitability or efficiency, and not just to reduce the prices for hospital stays regardless of quality, it must extend to far more than the global figures in the compilation summarizing performance and calculation and the hospital statistics (no.
of cases, days of care, length of stay, case lump sums and special fees).
Documentation of particular features of the patient population, the potentials of the hospital and description of the treatment processes yield valuable information on capacity and performance level.
With rising costs, the danger is growing that the quality and risk dimension of the actual medical treatment will not be promoted with the same enthusiasm by those offering the service.
Hospital audit does not only allow a check on the hospital's own situation with regard to performance, quality, efficiency and patient satisfaction, but can also provide a basis for structural planning.
The fact is that all efforts made and steps taken by the responsible persons in the hospital to improve the quality of structures, processes and results can only be successful if they are also perceived by the patients, the doctors who refer them and the visitors.
If hospital audit is restricted to the bed occupancy and the invoicing data, it is only realistic to expect cuts in performance level.
This would be bad for the patient and, in view of the consequent costs, also for the overall costs in the health care sector.
Against the backdrop of a future performance-related system of remuneration instead of the principle of covering one's own costs that has been in place hitherto, openness about treatment results gains in importance as a competition parameter for qualified hospitals.
Laparoscopic pelvic lymph node dissection was performed in 120 patients scheduled to undergo either radical perineal prostatectomy or radiation therapy.
On average 13 lymph nodes were resected in each patient, and 21 patients were found to have metastatic disease in 1-9 lymph nodes.
After an initial learning curve, mean operative time was reduced significantly, allowing laparoscopic lymph node dissection and radical prostatectomy to be performed as a one-stage procedure.
The overall complication rate was 10 %; open revisions were necessary in only 2 of 120 patients.
Postoperative hospital stay was 2 days in patients undergoing laparoscopic lymph node dissection only.
This minimally invasive procedure is particularly beneficial to patients with lymph node metastases not undergoing radical prostatectomy, as well as to patients planned to be treated by radiation therapy.
The combination of laparoscopic lymph node dissection and radical perineal prostatectomy avoids an abdominal incision and thus shortens both the hospital stay and the period of convalescence.
Taking the concepts of psychic structure and internal representation as an example, three different ways of relating psychoanalytic concepts to neurobiology are presented and discussed: the localizing, the metaphorical and the modelling relation.
The need is stressed not to mix up the different levels of description and explanation too early; at the same time it is argued that - after the dismissal of the old metapsychology - this way of relating offers a new chance to integrate neurobiological aspects in the concept of psychic structure without falling into the traps of biologistic reductionism and individualism.
Following augmentation of the upper extremity muscles necessitated by damage to the brachial plexus, special post-operative care programs are required to provide the patient with the best possible results.
Proper care requires cooperation between the orthopedic surgeon, physical therapists and nurses.
Only then can postoperative rehabilitation and functional control of the extremity improve.
We describe interdisciplinary postoperative care programs for augmentation of the deltoid muscle with trapezius transfer, arthrodesis of the glenohumeral joint, biceps augmentation with the latissimus dorsi transfer, Steindler flexorplasty and augmentation of flexors/extensors muscles in the hand.
The prevalence of type I allergy against latex was investigated in dental students by questionnaire, prick tests and the determination of specific IgE antibodies.
Positive prick tests against different latex fluids were found in 18 (8.7%) of 206 students, with clinical relevance in 11 cases.
When the total number of students in each semester was taken into account an increase in the minimal prevalence of clinically relevant latex allergy from 2% in the second semester to 10.4% in the tenth semester was seen.
A history of glove intolerance presenting as a wheal-and-flare reaction was associated with a type I allergy against latex in only 50% of the affected subjects.
Atopic diseases and hand eczema of different causes proved to be risk factors in 16 and 5 of 18 students with latex allergy, respectively.
A high-ammonia accelerator-free latex fluid proved to be a very reliable test medium compared to the less sensitive determination of specific IgE antibodies to latex.
Gastrointestinal obstruction is a frequently observed emergency with tumor patients.
In addition to tumor relapse, the development of a second tumor or intraperitoneal tumor spreading, and benign alterations in advanced tumor stages (radiogenic stenosis, adhesions) may also be the cause for the obstruction.
The main objective of therapy is an attempt to eliminate the intestinal obstruction through surgery.
If this is not possible because of advanced intra-abdominal tumor expansion, several endoscopic or interventional radiology methods, and drugs are available, that are used on an individual basis and based on prevailing experience to relieve the patient's condition.
The case of a 60-year-old female patient with a supraglottic larynx carcinoma (T3N2CM0) and bilateral enlargement of the laryngeal sacculus is presented.
On one side, the sacculus opened atypically into the left vestibular fold.
The sacculus is a physiologic part of the roof of Morgagni's ventricle, the size of which can vary greatly.
These canal-like structures can be the point of origin of cysts, laryngoceles, mucoceles, and pyoceles.
Adverse effects of resuscitation due to closed-chest cardiac massage are common, and the incidence is increased when an incorrect technique is used.
Nevertheless, thrombolytic therapy of a myocardial infarction can become necessary even after cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).
In these patients, the risk of thrombolytic therapy-induced bleeding is immanent.
Implantable cardioverter/defibrillators (ICD) have led to a reduction in cardiac mortality in patients with ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
A considerable number of patients experience repeated shocks which may have an impact on the quality of life.
An overview of the 30 years history and developement of documentation and information systems in the Orthopedic University Hospital Heidelberg is presented.
Since the foundation in 1967 four developmental phases can be described: first initiatives of medical doctors, establishment of a basic documentation system for scientific purposes, strategic information system planning and realisation of information systems with the possibility of controlling in medical areas and thereby steering of the services.
Planning and realisation were accomplished within the framework of the masterplans and concepts of the university clinics of the state of Baden-Württemberg.
The treatment success of nCPAP therapy (nasal continuous positive airway pressure) depends partly on the relief of symptoms and partly on long-term patient acceptance and the related avoidance of complications.Nasal complaints constitute the most frequently reported side effects and, together with problems of mask application, are among the primary factors causing an nCPAP-therapy to be prematurely discontinued.
The foramen ovale is anatomically open in 25 % of individuals, but functionally closed by the higher pressure in the left antrum.
Right-to-left shunt and subsequent paradoxical embolism may occur when pressure in the left antrum rises, for example, as a result of pulmonary embolism.
In the present case we demonstrate a patient who presented 20 days after osteosynthetic treatment of a femoral fracture with word-finding deficits.
Cerebral MRT revealed a fresh ischemic insult.
Duplex ultrasound of the legs showed a fresh thrombosis of the superficial femoral vein and scintigraphy of the lungs detected pulmonary embolism.
Transesophageal contrast echocardiography trapped a hemodynamically spontaneous, open foramen ovale.
Duplex ultrasound of the carotid arteries detected no pathological findings.
Deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism can be clinically unconspicuous and become manifest by cerebral deficits resulting from paradox embolism and cerebral ischemia.
The diagnostic strategies in multiple trauma aim at rapid identification of life-threatening injuries, recognition of serious organ lesions, and evaluation of the systemic trauma impact, as well as the resulting host reaction.
Besides improvements in the structure and organization, major innovations in imaging techniques have significantly improved and accelerated evaluation of the patient with multiple injuries in the emergency room.
Systematic diagnostic work-up, integrated multidisciplinary approach, and defined algorithms for traumatic key symptoms represent the hallmarks of successful emergency room management.
In particular, diagnostic work-up of injured body cavities using sonography and helical computed tomography are evaluated.
Pheochromocytomas are functionally active, catecholamine-secreting tumours of chromaffin tissue.
The mainstay of pharmacological therapy is preoperative treatment with oral phenoxybenzamine.
This drug irreversibly alkylates alpha-1-adrenergic receptors on vascular smooth muscle and renders them nonfunctional, thereby causing vasodilatation.
The duration of action of a single dose is approximately 24 h. Therefore, postoperative hypotension is a hazard of therapy with phenoxybenzamine if adequate plasma volume repletion is not provided.
Prazosin, a short-acting, competitive alpha-1 blocker, has been used preoperatively, but has been criticized for its failure to adequately prevent perioperative hypertensive episodes.
Case report: Case presentation of a 59-year old female patient, who has been treated for her cancer by a physician of internal medicine with peroxodisulphuric acid.
For this therapy to be successful - according to the physician - all drugs especially the analgetics had to be stopped.
We present a case of primary plasmocytoma of the left upper bronchus.
Occlusion led to atelectasis of the left upper lobe and subsequent poststenotic pneumonia.
Therapy consisted of local excision of the bronchus and postoperative radiotherapy.
This type of lung-conserving therapy in a case of primary plasmocytoma has not been described before.
545 male patients with a tentative diagnosis "urethritis" were examined between November 1984 and December 1994 in the Department of Dermatology and Venerology of the Military Hospital in Ulm.
The patients, aged from 18 to 58 years (mean age 24.1 years), were examined according to a standardized diagnostic procedure: ...
The use of the Kaufman-Assessment Battery for Children (K-ABC) was evaluated with a sample of 50 mentally disabled adults in a wide age range, as there exist no special tests for this group of patients.
Intercorrelation- and factor analyses, and correlations with the German adaptation of the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (HAWIE-R) proved the use of the K-ABC to be valid.
As an assessment battery for children designed for the wide age range from 2-6 to 12-5 years is more adequate to the capability of intellectually impaired adults, the K-ABC delivers results on individual strengths and weaknesses, based on a neuropsychological theory.
Thus the individual cognitive abilities can be assessed with more differentiation, and that gives an important base for intervention, partial remediation, and placement.
Subject: Using multi-slice computed tomography (MSCT) large body areas can scanned with high spatial resolution.
In this study, MSCT was employed for virtual colonoscopy in various pathologies of the colon.
In a regional quality assurance project for screening mammography (German Mammography Study), 27 335 women were screened in 40 participating, office-based mammography units from 1990-1992.
Screening led to 317 biopsies with a positive predictive value of 0.33.
All biopsy documentation available to the mammography physicians was analysed with a view towards biopsy interval and completeness of information fed back to the Mx physicians.
Biopsy recommendations were acted upon in 29 % of cases within 2 weeks.
With the exception of the dignity Mx physicians were incompletely informed about biopsy results.
The surgical procedure was known in the doctors' offices in 62 % of the cases.
Specimen radiographies were not done regularly.
A pathology report was available overall in 42 of 106 malignant cases, respectively.
With the exception of the histological diagnosis itself, no variable mentioned in the reports was documented completely.
Only one third of the physicians received such reports routinely.
Fail-safe information are requested by Mx physicians and can help them to better target biopsy recommendations.
A (regional) quality assurance center should be made responsible to analyse the flow of information in mammography screening, to fill in gaps and to speed up professional cooperation.
The high rate of recurrence after the treatment of adhesive obstruction demands special prophylactic treatment.
In a 13-year period, 52 out of 95 patients with major adhesions were provided with a long nasointestinal tube for intestinal splinting intraoperatively.
The was being left in situ on an average of 6.6 days.
After an observation period of at least 36 months a recurrence was seen in 2 of these 52 patients (3.9 %; causes: volvulus after 6 months/fibrinous peritonitis on the 6th postoperative day).
Amongst the 43 'non-splinted' patients, recurrence of adhesive obstruction was documented in 8 cases (18.6 %; causes: adhesions after 0.3-136.9 months).
In the course of aftercare abdominal complaints were significantly fewer in patients who had been splinted.
Complications concerning the nasointestinal tubes did not occur.
The rate of perioperative complications was similar in both groups.
Minimally invasive cardiac surgery has been developed to offer patients the benefits of open heart operations with decreased pain and limited skin incision.
In this study, we report the results of minimally AVR compared to the conventional method performed in the same period.
From May 1996 to January 1998, 86 patients received isolated aortic valve replacement by the limited superior median sternotomy (group 1).
As a control group (group 2), 78 patients were enrolled who underwent isolated aortic valve replacements by standard sternotomy in the same period.
AV-synchrony and rate-responsive pacing are known as major factors to increase the maximum working capacity in patients with chronotropic incompetence.
However, their importance throughout low-levels of exercise is poorly evaluated.
We studied 11 patients with implanted dual-chamber pacemakers (Telectronics, META 1254) concerning oxygen uptake kinetics during serial treadmill exercise testing at a constant workload of 35 W (LITE protocol).
Each patient was tested in VVIR-, DDD-, and DDDR-mode.
All AV delays were constant at 160ms.
The oxygen deficit (O2D), mean response time (MRT) for oxygen uptake, and a oxygen deficit index (O2Di) were determined.
In addition, the heart rate (HR) and bloodpressure were monitored.
Results: Significant differences (p<0.01) were observed in HR and O2D when comparing both DDD- to VVIR- and DDD- to DDDR-modes.
Comparing the randomly synchronous VVIR- to the DDDR-mode, only the MRT of oxygen uptake demonstrated a significant decrease in the DDDR-mode (p<0.05).
There were also significant decreases in O2Di and MRT in the DDDR-mode, as compared to the non-rate responsive DDD-mode (p<0.01).
Stress testing in PM patients with an appropriate chronotropic response to low intensity exercise demontrates that AV synchrony is of much less influence on oxygen uptake kinetics than the rate-adaptive pacing.
Purpose: This paper discusses the role of different imaging modalities in the diagnostic work-up of Crohn's disease (CD).
Introduction: Results of animal experiments have demonstrated that the osseous integration of non-cemented prostheses can, at the very least temporarily, be impaired by the application of non-steroidal antiphlogistic agents (such as diclofenac).
It is the objective of this study to examine whether there is a direct influence of diclofenac used in usual clinical dosages (3 times 50 mg daily) on bone cells and their progenitor cells which would explain the observed slow integration of the prostheses.
Methods: To investigate this, cultivated human in vitro osteoblasts and stromal bone marrow cells were incubated with increasing doses of the medications.
Our study focused on the effect of diclofenac application on proliferation and functional metabolism in both cell lines.
The measurable maximal plasma concentration 2h after the application of one tablet Voltaren 50 reached 1.6µg/ml.
This correlated with diclofenac concentrations between 1 and 10 ml found in our experiments.
The detected values were correlated to the control group (0 µg/ml diclofenac).
Results: The drug effect upon osteoblasts was higher than on progenitor cells.
The proliferation of in vitro stromal bone marrow cells, compared to untreated cells, was found to be decreased.
We observed a decrease to 82% at a diclofenac concentration of 1 µg/ml, Osteoblasts exhibited a decrease to 97,5% at the same concentration.
The DNA synthesis increased to 118% in stromal bone marrow cells, in osteoblasts to 144%.
In contrast, we detected a neglectible decrease to 92% in the collagen synthesis of osteoblasts compared to untreated cells.
The synthesis of osteocalcin by osteoblasts increased to 119%.
The alkaline phosphatase activity was found to be decreased to 88% in stromal bone marrow cells and increased in osteoblasts to 111%.
Conclusion: Temporary inhibiting effects on osseous integration in non-cemented prosthesis by diclofenac could be caused by a disturbance in the anabolic bone metabolism, exhibited by an increase of osteoblastic osteocalcin expression.
Osteocalcin as a known negative regulator of the osteoneogenesis is most likely inhibiting the collagen matrix deposition.
Recent investigations have controversially but convincingly interpreted the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis (arteriosclerosis).
Atherosclerosis can apparently be the result of ultrachronic, persistent infection by Chlamydia pneumoniae and not the result of heterogenous risk factors.
The main arguments for chlamydial genesis are: Correlation of coronary heart disease and other atherosclerotic diseases and antibodies against Chlamydia pneumoniae.
(2) Chlamydia pneumoniae could be detected with different techniques (PCR, ICC, immunhistology, electromicroscopy, culture) in a high percentage of atheromas from different sites.
(3) According to three successful international studies with macrolides in coronary heart disease.
(4) Target cells of atherosclerosis (endothelia, macrophages, muscle cells) can be infected by Chlamydia pneumoniae in vitro.
(5) Provocation of arteriitis in animal experiments.
(6) The reduction of incidence of atherosclerotic diseases since the 1960s, probably due to advances in antibiotic treatment.
(7) Elevated levels of acute-phase proteins and other inflammatory signs (CRP, WBC count, fibrinogin) briefly before cardiac infarction occurs.
There are good arguments for intervention studies in coronary heart disease and other manifestations of atherosclerosis.
The relevant antibiotics are available for chlamydial infections and are inexpensive and safe.
Meticulous protocols and long-term monitoring of patients should be developed.
The pre- and postoperative symptoms of zygomatic bone fractures were examined in a follow-up study to prepare a classification proposal.
A differential indication for minimally invasive therapy modes was looked for with respect to this proposal.
Therapy of isolated zygomatic bone fractures consisted in repositioning with a hook and miniplate fixation across the frontozygomatic suture.
The aims of this study were clinical and radiological assessment of the repositioning result in terms of aesthetics and stability and quantification of the postoperative remission of disturbances of sensitivity of the infraorbital nerve.
A total of 52 patients were examined.
After the operation (on average after 3.5 days following the trauma) they were followed-up postoperatively for 12 months according to a strict schedule.
Preoperatively, 49 patients reported disturbances of sensitivity of the infraorbital nerve.
Other symptoms, such as periorbital haematoma and flattening of the zygomatic prominence, were observed in 49 patients and 45 patients, respectively.
All fractures were repositioned well as assessed clinically and radiologically.
The aesthetic result was evaluated as symmetric and durable in all cases.
Six months postoperatively 41 patients reported normal sensitivity in the area of the infraorbital nerve.
In only five patients (10.2%) was the sensitivity loss persistent throughout the entire follow-up period.
Patients with primarily lacking diplopia developed neither eye motility disturbances nor postoperative enophthalmus in the following period.
It can be concluded that the treatment of an isolated zygomatic bone fracture which satisfies aesthetic and functional requirements is possible by reposition and fixation with one miniplate at the lateral orbital rim.
An additional osteosynthesis at the infraorbital rim or at the zygomaticomaxillary crista is not necessary.
A routine revision of the orbital floor is only indicated in cases of preoperative diplopia.
A zygomatic bone fracture connected with diplopia should be classified as combined zygomatic-/orbital floor fracture.
Chronic primary headache has a considerable impact on the quality of life.
To date, this impact has been evaluated by measurements of the general pain specific impairment of the quality of life.
Headache specific measurements of quality of life or of disability caused by the headache are still missing for the German language.
In America, a headache specific questionnaire, the "Headache Disability Inventory" (HDI), has been evaluated which is used in the presented study to create a German version, the "Inventar zur Beeinträchtigung durch Kopfschmerzen" (IBK).
94 consecutive patients with a primary headache disorder (59 female, 35 male; mean age 40 +/- 12 years) were examined.
Cronbach's alpha was a=0.90, the test-retest-reliability after three months was r=0.87.
An analysis of subscales for emotional and functional disability showed similar values for the internal consistency and the test-retest-reliability of these subscales.
The scores of the different headache types did not differ significantly.
In post-hoc-analyses, however, cluster headache showed higher disability scores than migraine both in the total scale and in the subscales.
The total score of the IBK was significantly correlated with the number of headache days per month (r=0.41; p<0.0003) but not with the duration of disease or other demographic parameters.
The IBK is the first German headache specific measurement of certain aspects of the quality of life in chronic headache patients.
It can be used in clinical settings to evaluate the current state of the patient or to monitor treatment and it can be used for scientific studies.
Age and menstrual cycle have an important influence on the breast.
This well-known fact is experienced in the daily routine of gynecologists and radiologists.
The number of publications addressing the effect of these influences on imaging, however, is surprisingly low.
The aim of this work is to describe the influences of age and menstrual cycle on the breast and to address their clinical relevance for mammography and MR mammography.
Therefore, own data are presented concerning the age and menstrual cycle influences on breast parenchyma in dynamic MR mammography.
Literature data are used to correlate mammography and MR imaging findings with these influences.
The changes of the breast due to age and menstrual cycle have important direct implications on performing and reading conventional mammography and MR mammography.
The knowledge of these changes is also helpful in the interpretation of findings when comparing different methods.
Finally, the data gained by using imaging methods enable important basic insights into physiology and physiopathology of the breast in vivo.
As part of our neonatal screening program we applied tandem mass spectrometry on 128.225 dried blood samples for detection of inborn errors of metabolism.
Appendectomy is one of the most frequent surgical procedures.
Accuracy in the clinical diagnosis of acute non-specific appendicitis, however, suffers from the fact that the symptoms and clinical findings of acute appendicitis can be mimicked by many other abdominal diseases.
The clinical diagnosis of acute appendicitis, therefore, can only be definitely confirmed by pathomorphological analysis, the criteria of which are reviewed in this paper.
Special emphasis is given to distinct variants of acute appendicitis and the significance of neuroappendicopathy.
Extra-articular interventions by osteotomies to correct the axial malpositioning of the joint (genu varum or valgum) are treatments proven over many years.
The middle and long term results shows many patients are very satisfied.
Unfortunately a uniform critical examination is lacking because the investigators used no scores.
The good results by infra- and supracondylar osteotomies - some of them for 15 years and more - have to be achieved by prosthesis first.
The important facts for gonarthrosis of the knee joint are the axial malpositioning, the miss load, and the instability of the joint; these facts are the cause for the complaints and for the restriction of functional efficiency.
Therefore, indication of infra- or supracondylar osteotomies is not limited by the age of the patient.
The most important fact is the condition of the joint, especially the quality of bone, the instability of the joint, and the loss of bone.
Given the right indication, the treatment of genu varum and valgum by osteotomies is an important factor in preserving the joint.
Also, there are still chances to do another operation, such a prothesis.
A prothesis can be implanted if the osteotomy has no chance to preserve the joint.
Psychic trauma may be followed by a variety of unpredictable reactions by the subject, which differ individually and are dependant upon the situation.
Differentiation between psychic crises and psychiatric emergency situations (PES) is often difficult as the first might proceed into the second and definitions of the two tend to blur.
This article aims to overview the different psychic and psychiatric disturbances which are relevant in preclinical emergency medicine.
A definition is offered to outline PES that require immediate medical intervention and crises due to psycho-social reasons.
For the most important disturbances and syndromes the differential diagnostic procedures and therapeutic strategies are presented.
Acute pancreatitis is a multietiologic entity with rather diverse clinical courses.
Whereas edematous pancreatitis has a mortality of less than 1%, nowadays; still approximately 20% of all patients with the necrotizing form succumb to the disease.
To further improve therapeutic results a standardized approach should be used.
For effective treatment the differentiation between edematous and necrotizing pancreatitis is crucial.
All patients with signs of pancreatic necroses during abdominal ultrasound and patients with organ insufficiencies should undergo a CT-scan to define exactly the nature and the extent of the disease.
Primarily all patients are treated conservatively.
Main indications for operative intervention are signs for infection of pancreatic necroses and an acute abdomen due to local complications of acute pancreatitis.
In cases of biliary origin an elective cholecystectomy has to be performed during a free interval to prevent a recurrence.
Objective: Diagnosis of osteomyelitis is difficult in early state of disease.
Usually, characteristic X-ray findings cannot be obtained during the first week of disease.
Sonography, scintigraphy and magnetic resonance tomography were compared at clinical manifestation of osteomyelitis.
A 73-year old female patient is known to have hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM) since 1989.
After a transmural anterolateral myocardial infarction with the development of a large apical aneurysma of the anterior wall, a previously measured gradient of 11 mm Hg in the LVOT is no longer detected.
As a consequence of this casuistry, "pseudo-myectomy" caused by myocardial as an example of an uncommon spontaneous course of HOCM.
Aim: Intensified insulin therapy is the therapy of choice for patients with diabetes Type I.
Intensified insulin therapy includes an basis-bolus insulin injection regimen or continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion, several times daily blood glucose self-monitoring, self-adaptation of insulin dosages by the patients themselves and a far-reaching liberalization of nutrition.
The patients learn selfmanagement of diabetes therapy in a structured treatment and teaching program.
The effectivity of this program is evaluated in the routine care.
The treatment of idiopathic scoliosis over 40  ° (Cobb) during the growth period is under discussion concerning the indication for conservative or surgical treatment.
Curve progression depends on the degree of the frontal and sagittal deformity, vertebral rotation, rigidity of the curve, the skeletal age, the age and sex of the patient, the familial frequency of scoliosis and the location of the curve.
In scoliosis over 40  ° progression is fast and the possibilities for successful conservative brace treatment are reduced during the growth period.
Progression occurs more frequently in thoracic and double major scolioses, especially in young patients (Risser sign 0 and 1).
The purpose of this study was to evaluate low-field magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with an open system and to correlate results obtained with the experience of the radiologist.
Between August 1995 and May 1997, 75 patients at the Unfallchirurgische Universitätsklinik, Mainz, Germany, with an acute trauma of the knee joint were operated on arthroscopically after clinical examination, X-ray and MRI imaging.
MRI analysis was performed by two independent radiologists with varying MRI experience without knowledge of the patient's history.
The sensitivity and specifity of the more [U1] and the less experienced [U2] radiologist ranged from 83 to 100% (U1) and from 61 to 100% (U2).
Positive and negative predictive value ranged from 83 to 100% (U1) and from 58 to 100% (U2); accuracy ranged from 92 to 100% (U1) and from 77 to 100% (U1).
We conclude that the results of low-field MRI are comparable with those of high-field MRI and that differences in the results of the experienced and less experienced radiologist can be established.
In intervention trials it was without exception possible to influence the development of atherosclerosis by a reduction of the LDL-cholesterol and an increase in HDL-cholesterol and to reduce complications like myocardial infarction, sudden cardiac death, angina or heart failure.
Changes of lifestyle can be effective, but are rarely accepted and are difficult to communicate.
Dermatosurgery has been gaining in importance in recent years.
In departments of dermatology German-speaking countries the total number of operations increased by 58% from 1984 to 1991.
The increase in the number of operations of moderate and extreme severity was especially marked.
Out-patient dermatosurgery was also performed mainly by dermatologists as opposed to other specialties.
From 1988 to 1992 dermatologists in private practice recorded an increase of 40.6% in the number of operative procedures they performed.
The importance of dermatosurgery in hospital and private practice can be expected to continue increasing in the future; dermatologists must therefore prepare themselves for the present and future challenges inherent in surgery of the skin.
There is evidence that diastolic function is a major determinant of overall cardiac performance.
Intraoperative use of transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) enables Doppler measurement of mitral inflow pattern (E/A ratio).
The E/A ratio is suggested to be a reliable index of changes in myocardial relaxation.
In the present study we compared the time course of the E/A ratio and the time constant of myocardial relaxation () assessed by direct left ventricular pressure recordings in patients before and after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
After ethical approval, 12 patients undergoing CABG surgery were studied.
Measurements of the E/A ratio and  were performed after induction of anesthesia (I), immediately prior to CPB with the pericardium open (II), 5 min after CPB (III), and after sternal closure (IV).
Time constant of myocardial relaxation was calculated as the reciprocal value of the slope of the left ventricular dP/dt and left ventricular pressure plot.
The E/A ratio was significantly decreased at the end of surgery (IV).
In contrast,  was increased immediately after CPB, but decreased after sternal closure (IV).
Cardiac index and heart rate both increased after CPB.
The results of the present study demonstrate that diastolic dysfunction occurred immediately after CPB, as indicated by an increase in the time constant of myocardial relaxation.
However,  improved rapidly to pre-CPB values.
The E/A ratio alone failed to detect the initial post-CPB alteration in left ventricular relaxation.
Acute exercise is followed by a mobilization of white blood cells, mainly induced by increased levels of catecholamines and cortisol.
NK-cells react the most intensive, they can increase fivefold after intensive exercise.
Additionally a weak acute-phase reaction occurs.
Most of these changes normalize during twenty-four hours.
Parameters of the humoral immune system may be different from the pre-exercise levels up to seventy-two hours.
Repeated physical exercise, which is typical for sports, is followed only by small changes of immunologic parameters under conditions of rest.
Epidemiological studies give clues that the rate of upper respiratory tract infections in athletes can be described by a j-shaped curve.
Moderately active subjects have the lowest rate of infection.
For this influence of exercise on health mainly functional changes seem to be important.
Especially after exccentric exercise immunological cells can be seen in the muscle tissue, which remove destructed tissue.
Not very much is known about the role of the immune system in the regeneration of tendons and other bradytrophic tissues.
To achieve septoplasty without compromising the surgical goal of attaining a straight and solid septum, even in cases of marked deviations or severe post-traumatic deformities, we now use a new technique in which the septal reconstruction includes the placement of a resorbable implant as a "compound graft".
For this purpose the entire septal cartilage is removed, and the severely deviated part is divided into straight sections that are reconnected to each other to form a straight and solid plate.
As connecting material we use a polydioxanon (PDS) foil.
The sections of cartilage are sutured to the foil with PDS suture material.
The compound graft thus constructed consists of the septal cartilage and resorbable alloplastic material and is reimplanted into the nose.
The PDS and suture material are usually resorbed within 8 months, excluding long-term complications.
During the past 2 years this method was used in treating 38 patients.
The surgical goal was attained in every case, and no immediate or long-term complications occurred.
This method of combining septal cartilage with a resorbable implant leads to a better, significant correction of even severe septal deviations.
Two types of corticosteroid receptors have been identified in the brain and pituitary that play an important role in the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis.
These glucocorticoid hormone binding receptors are the mineralocorticoid receptor (MR) and the glucocorticoid receptor (GR).
Evidently, a tight control of the concentration and function of these receptors is of prime importance for maintaining and regaining homeostasis after stressful challenges.
Here, we describe a novel mechanism revealing a rapid upsurge in MR density in the hippocampus (a limbic structure highly involved in HPA axis regulation) after an acute psychologically stressful challenge.
This rise in MR is accompanied by a stronger MR-mediated inhibitory control of the HPA axis.
Thus, an acute stressful experience results in a reorganization of the HPA axis involving a principal role of the hippocampal MR.
This novel mechanism may be of significance for increasing our understanding of the etiology of stress-related disorders.
The wide variety of therapeutic effects make neuroleptics potent drugs in the treatment of pain.
Until now there has been no proof of their analgesic potency; in spite of this fact, neuroleptics are used to treat chronic pain states on the assumption that they do have analgesic potency.
A metaanalysis was performed and 48 publications reviewed.
Thirty-four, the majority of the studies, are case reports, retrospective analyses or non-randomised cohort studies.
Most of these reports attest to a positive effect.
However, only ten out of fifteen studies with a higher statistical study power describe a possible analgesic effect.
None of the studies could differentiate between the effects of analgesia and sedation of the drugs used.
The metaanalysis provides no evidence of intrinsic analgesic properties of neuroleptics for their use as adjuvant analgesics.
Studies into the pathophysiology of acute ischaemic stroke have indicated that treatment options are likely to be optimised when early signs of stroke are recognised and treatment is initiated within 3 hours from symptom onset.
For most patients there is a long delay between the onset of symptoms and the start of therapy.
Many factors are responsible for this time delay: signs and symptoms often go unrecognised by patients, relatives and bystanders and stroke is not given a high priority by medical staff.
Although a small number of stroke patients is treated as emergency and attended to by the emergency medical services within this time window, this number could easily be increased by intensified public and emergency personnel education.
For the future, we hope that emergency medical services (EMS) will be able to initiate therapies which must be administered within the first few hours of acute stroke.
Standard of care by the EMS personnel includes maintenance of oxygenation, treatment of cardiac arrhythmia and hypertension as well as hyperglycemia and hyperthermia.
Early notification by the emergency medical services about stroke patients would enable stroke teams to be present at admission, thus improving the likelihood of a better outcome for patients.
A decrease in compliance of the ascending aorta caused by prosthetic replacement or "wrapping" may lead to a partial loss of the arterial Windkessel-function.
The following study investigated the effects of this intervention on aortic input impedance.
In 8 pigs, the wall of the ascending aorta was wrapped with a prosthesis.
This approach was chosen to minimize additional influence of extended operative procedures on the ascending aorta, like extracorporal circulation, cardioplegia or blood loss.
Flow and pressure were recorded before and after the intervention, and following Fourier Transformation, the aortic input impedance was calculated.
Mean pressure, mean flow, and total peripheral resistance were unaltered, while there was a significant increase in blood pressure amplitude and characteristic impedance in response to the "wrapping" procedure.
Thus, it becomes obvious that even the loss of elastic properties of the ascending aorta only leads to an increase of left ventricular load.
Cervical lymphadenopathies are widespread diseases in otorhinolaryngology.
There are many differential diagnoses which have to be considered when swelling persists.
To gain further information it is advisable to perform sonographically controlled fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNP).
If there is no reliable result, it is necessary to remove a lymph node.
We report on the rare case of isolated histiocytosis X in lymph nodes.
A 63-year-old male had noticed a swelling of the right side of the neck about 6 weeks previously.
The preliminary examinations (FNP/blood examinations) revealed no pathological findings.
Only the histological examination delivered the diagnosis of histiocytosis X.
Systemic manifestation was excluded by staging examinations.
No further therapy was necessary after lymph node extirpation.
The report demonstrates how to diagnose and treat this rare disease.
We report our preliminary results using a new magnetic resonance imaging technique for visualization of the urinary tract.
Using the paramagnetic contrast medium gadolinium diethylene triamine penta-acetic acid (DTPA), we were able to obtain images of the urinary tract comparable to those obtained by conventional excretory urography.
The major advantage of our technique is that besides good morphologic visualization, the excretion of gadolinium-DTPA can be studied simultaneously.
We demonstrate our preliminary results in selected cases.
Microcallus formations are demonstrable in nearly all cancellous bones by means of suitable preparation techniques.
Histologically, these structures are immature fibrous bone formed in local overloaded parts of the trabeculae.
Using a preparation technique that allows combined two- and threedimensional analysis, 26 normal human spines and 11 osteoporotic spines were investigated for microcallus.
Microcallus formations occur frequently in people over 45 years of age.
They are mainly localized in the lower thoracic and lumbar spine and occur significantly more frequent in females than in males.
The number of microcallus formations depends more on the microarchitecture of the cancellous bone than on individual trabecular parameters.
In about 33 % of cases microfractures are demonstrable in the centre of the microcallus formation.
In noninvasive studies the bone mass could be misinterpreted due to microcallus.
Although it indicates instability of the bone structure, microcallus formation is not a purely negative mechanism.
It stabilizes and regenerates the bone tissue.
Furthermore, complete new trabeculae can be formed due to bridges of microcallus between residual trabeculae.
Osteoporosis is not the result of an inability to form microcallus.
DNA cytometric investigations of intraosseous cystic lesions and osteoblastic tumors may be helpful in morphological diagnosis.
The detection of a DNA-aneuploid stemline supports the diagnosis of a high-grade malignant bone neoplasm, even in small biopsies.
Solitary and aneurysmal bone cysts have DNA-diploid cell populations.
Low-grade central osteosarcomas may show single-cell aneuploidies of varying extent as well as a DNA-diploid stemline.
Their presence may be a sign of genetic instability within the population of neoplastic cells before a DNA-aneuploid stemline is established and should prompt careful postoperative observation.
Although noise in general can induce hearing loss, environmental noise represents an important risk for children, teenagers and young adults.
Epidemiological investigations now support the occurrence of an increasing number of irreversible hearing losses in these groups.
Major causes of hearing loss are toys (guns), explosives and electroacoustically amplified music delivered by head sets or heard in discotheques and open air concerts.
The development of arthroscopic wrist surgery has helped to understand the anatomy and pathology of the wrist joint.
One of the most important functions of the arthroscopic inspection in the radiocarpal and mediocarpal joints is the evaluation of the wrist stability.
State of the art in the hand surgery today includes a combination of arthroscopic and arthroscopic assisted operations.
The arthroscopy of the wrist offers significant information independent from the standard radiological diagnostic tools.
TFCC lesions and scapholunate dissociation remain to be the most common causes for arthroscopic wrist surgery.
Wernicke's encephalopathy (WE) is a consequence of vitamin B1 (thiamine) deficiency and in the majority of cases due to alcoholism.
We report here the case of a 26-year-old male alcoholic who had stayed helplessly at home for 4 days until hospital admission.
Clinical diagnosis was difficult due to major disturbance of consciousness.
MRI showed an increase in signal intensity (T2-, FLAIR-weighted) around the third ventricle, the quadrigeminal bodies, the fornices, the mamillary bodies, the floor of the fourth ventricle and around the aqueduct.
These findings were indicative of WE although of unusual extent.
In this case MRI correlated well with clinical symptomatology.
Therapy with thiamine was started immediately and symptoms as well as MRI findings resolved partially.
The presented case illustrates the diagnostic usefulness of MRI in WE especially if the patient is of reduced consciousness and clinical investigation is limited.
Background: SLO microperimetric examination after the extraction of choroidal neovascular membranes (CNV) in age-related macular degeneration (AMD) shows absolute scotoma in the area of pigment epithelial loss.
Laser treatment also causes complete functional loss.
The functional results of these two methods should be compared before the surgical procedure is expanded.
Three case reports of a pseudomeniscus and an angiomatoid vascular proliferation of the synovial membrane as rare aseptic complications of unicompartmental knee arthroplasty are presented.
Neither complication can be confirmed by clinical examination, laboratory findings or diagnostic imaging techniques.
Arthroscopy of the knee joint permits both diagnostic evaluation and low-risk surgical treatment.
Strabismus surgery in children is associated with a high incidence of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV).
We report on a case of a 23 years old man who was polytraumatized in a car accident.
He survived with excellent clinical outcome, but after 113 days after the accident he collapsed, massive bleeding out of the mouths started and the patient died within a few minutes.
A gastric ulcer bleeding was assumed, but autopsy showed the beak-in of a posttraumatic aortic aneurysm into the esophagus.
The difficulties of in time diagnosis of thoracic aorta lesions are discussed.
The aim of this study was to assess the prevalence of oral leukoplakia (OL) in HIV-positive patients and to evaluate the clinical and histopathological features and the presence of Candida hyphae and viral infections (HSV 1, 2, HPV, EBV and CMV) by immunocytochemical methods using mono- or polyclonal antibodies.
A total of 269 HIV-seropositive patients, (222 men, median age 36.7 years and 47 women, median age 32 years) were registered.
OL occurred in 20/269 (7.4%) patients (men, smokers, median age 38 years); the non-homogeneous form was observed in 11%.
A lesional biopsy specimen was obtained from 8/20 patients.
Specimens did not show signs of epithelial dysplasia.
Candida hyphae were evident in 2/8 cases.
Two patients tested positive for HPV and CMV; antibodies against EBV, HSV1 and 2 were negative.
In conclusion, the prevalence of OL is comparatively high in this group of HIV-seropositive patients (7.4% vs. 0.9-2.2%).
Moreover, the mean age of the study group at the time of diagnosis for oL was lower (38 years vs. 60 years).
Damage/dysfunctioning of the heart forms part of the multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) in sepsis and SIRS.
This acute septic cardiomyopathy is often underestimated in degree and relevance, although about 10% of all sepsis fatalities are due to intractable heart failure.
This potentially reversible cardiomyopathy is characterized by a considerable pump failure, not primarily ischemic, with coronary blood flow being normal or even enhanced; the left and right ventricle is enlarged as a consequence of an increased ventricular compliance.
Damage of the heart can further be aggravated in case of additional right ventricular impairment due to pulmonary hypertension in ARDS.
SIRS-cardiomyopathy in non-infectious MODS has common traits with acute septic cardiomyopathy.
The pathogenesis of heart disease in sepsis and SIRS is multifactorial, the endotoxin/TNF/NO/ cGMP-cascade representing a main negative inotropic axis.
Therapy of acute septic cardiomyopathy and SIRS-cardiomyopathy at present is still mainly symptomatic (volume substitution, inotropic/vasoactive agents); causal therapeutic principles are, however, put to test in the context of a comprehensive concept of causal sepsis treatment.
Fractures of the distal metaphysis of the tibia often include an extension into the ankle.
Intramedullary nailing combined with covered screw osteosynthesis should reduce the high incidence of soft tissue and ankle problems and should be an alternative to open plate fixation, with good ultimate functional outcome.
Between January 1993 and December 1995, a prospective study on 49 patients with distal metaphyseal tibia fracture and involvement of the ankle was performed.
All the fractures were treated with intramedullary nailing combined with covered screw osteosynthesis, and plate fixation in cases of fibula fractures.
There were 27 men and 22 women with an average age of 46.4  +/-  12.7 years (range 21-90).
In most studies of the use of intramedullary nailing in distal tibial fractures the classification has been inadequate.
Therefore a new classification according to Robinson et al.
(1995) was used: 10 fractures were type II B (20.4 %), 13 were type II C (26.5 %), and 26 patients suffered a combination of type II B and type II C (53.1 %).
This fracture type was defined as type II D for use in this study.
The severity of soft tissue injury was recorded using the Gustilo system in case of open (n = 19) and the Tscherne system in case of closed fractures (n = 30).
In 31 patients distal tibia fracture was accompanied by a fracture of the fibula, which was first stablized using a plate.
For reconstruction of the distal articular surface, covered screw osteosynthesis was done.
At the next step intramedullary nails were inserted and were statically locked proximally and distally.
From January 1993 to February 1994, the reamed AO standard nail was used.
After introduction of the unreamed tibial nail (UTN) all fractures were treated by this implant.
Full load on the operated leg was allowed after 8 weeks.
Union of the fracture was assessed by standard radiological and clinical criteria.
Misalignment was defined as more than 5  ° of angular rotation.
Further surgery due to a valgus deformity in the ankle joint had to be done in three cases.
There were no deep infections.
Three patients had a superficial infection in the ankle area, but surgical debridement was not necessary.
A leg shortening was found in 4 cases, but it was less than 1 cm in every case.
Therefore, surgical correction was not done.
Patients were reviewed at intervals of 2, 6, and 12 weeks, and after 6, and at least 12 months.
All 49 patients were finally reviewed after an average time of 15.7 months (range 12-38).
Bone fusion was reached 12.8 weeks (range 9-21) after the operative treatment.
A specific assessment of the ankle symptoms was made using the score of Olerud and Molander (1984).
In 29 patients excellent results were recorded.
A satisfactory result was attained with 17 patients and just 3 patients were found to be unsatisfactory.
Although proximity of distal tibia fracture to the ankle makes the treatment more complicated than for fractures of the tibial diaphysis, closed intramedullary nailing combined with covered screw fixation is a good alternative to open reduction and plate fixation.
The major advantages are closed procedure and simplified interlocking techniques.
Therefore, closed intramedullary nailing combined with covered screw fixation is a safe and effective method of managing this type of fracture.
Laryngeal candidiasis is very rare in the absence of other more proximal diseases in the aerodigestive tract.
The lesion shows pseudoepitheliomatous hyperplasia or acanthosis and, given its rarity, may be confused with cancer.
In the present paper we report on a 56-year-old male patient who presented with hoarseness.
Physical examination of the larynx revealed a hyperplastic lesion involving both vocal cords.
The clinical aspect and the risk factor profile of the patient (ten bottles of beer and 40 cigarettes per day) generated the clinical diagnosis of laryngeal cancer.
The histopathological examination of the specimen excluded a squamous cell carcinoma; however, it could not provide a clear diagnosis.
Laryngeal papillomatosis and tuberculosis, which had been suspected, could be excluded.
As the lesion progressed, further biopsies led to the diagnosis of candidiasis.
Systemic antimycotic treatment with fluconazol and amphotericin caused a complete remission.
Lymphatic spread of bronchial carcinoma can reach any part of the mediastinum, irrespective of the localisation of the primary tumor.
Metastatic spread may not affect al topographical lymph node positions, but this is unpredictable.
The number of lymph nodes in each position varies.
Therefore, systematic mediastinal lymph node dissection includes all ipsilateral compartments of the mediastinum.
It is also possible to reach contralateral sites.
In right-sided thoracotomies the lymph node dissection is standardized.
Mobilizing the aortic arch and the large vessels also allows complete mediastinal dissection by a left-sided approach.
The surgical technique is described.
Perioperative morbidity does not increase.
Systematic mediastinal lymph node dissection is the gold standard for evaluation of an exact pN stage.
The stage-related survival rate is significantly improved.
Therefore, it should be required that systematic mediastinal lymph node dissection be standard in the surgical treatment of bronchial carcinoma.
In the diagnosis and treatment of acute scrotal pain and swelling it is important to differentiate between testicular torsion and epididymo-orchitis.
A special case of a thirty-eight-year-old male asylant from Nepal was presented in the urological service with acute scrotal pain.
To exclude testicular torsion, a diagnostic exploration of the scrotum was done with the findings of an acute funiculitis with abscess formation.
Under surgical drainage of abscess together with medical treatment the acute inflammation disappeared.
The diagnosis of filarial funiculitis was made after identifying the microfilariae in a blood vessel and in the peripheral blood smear.
A filaricide medication with diethylcarbamacine citran was administered with good symptomatic relief.
We studied 10 patients with Parkinson's disease and 12 patients with Parkinson-plus-syndrome, trying to improve patients' gait by application of various external rhythmic stimuli, including metronome stimulation (96 beats per minute=middle andante).
The test course of the patients was 4x10 meters and 3 U-turns.
The patients' gait quality under stimulation was compared with their free walk (velocity, number of steps, number of freezing episodes).
Metronome stimulation significantly reduced the time and number of steps needed for the test course and also diminished the number of freezing episodes.
March music stimulation was less effective and tactile stimulation (rhythmically tapping on the patient's shoulder) even produced negative results.
The positive effect of metronome stimulation was also found, when the tests were not performed inside the hospital building, but outside in the hospital parc.
Metronome stimulation was comparably effective in both patient sub-groups examined in this study (M. Parkinson, Parkinson-plus-syndrome) and seems to be an important additional help in the treatment of these patients.
Electronical metronomes are not expensive, easy in handling, and portable.
A theoretical explanation of metronome stimulation effectivity in patients with Parkinson's disease still needs to be elucidated.
The occurrence of perineural epithelial complexes within the pancreas cannot always be regarded as evidence of malignancy.
Chronic pancreatitis can induce alterations in the anatomy of the organ with a histological picture comparable to that of neural invasion.
The important criteria for differential diagnosis are neuroendocrine differentiation of these cells or their ductular morphology without atypia.
Objectives Repair of acute rupture of the Achilles tendon through a percutaneous technique under general, regional, or local anesthesia.
Deciduosis of the appendix is a rare cause of acute appendicitis in pregnancy.
Ectopic decidual cells localized in the submesothelial stroma may represent a physiologic reaction of the pluripotent stromal cells to progestational hormonal stimulation.
Less frequently, deciduosis is based on a preexisting extragenital endometriosis, visible in a localization other than strictly submesothelial, in residuals of cyclic proliferation and bleeding, and in endometrial glandular formations embedded in the decidual cells.
In 14 patients with acute LBP the effect of manual therapy was examined.
The examination was conducted with the Triflexometer, which is an electromechanical measuring instrument for examination of the posture and function of the spine.
This instrument makes possible the measurement of the spine in resting as well as in moving positions, and it is also suitable for recording local disturbances of the movement.
In our study we measured the spine from C7 to S2 in the sagittal and frontal planes.
Improvement in movement was detected in all patients following manual therapy, as well as in ante-, retro- and lateral flexion on both sides, and local functional disturbances also disappeared partially or totally.
Our study shows that the Triflexometer makes it possible to record the effect of manual therapy in acute LBP.
The proof of the local functional disturbances after manual therapy indicates that these patients have a higher risk of new episodes of acute LBP or perhaps of chronic LBP, and because of that there it is necessary to use other treatment forms.
Diagnostic imaging after renal transplantation is of high importance in the differential diagnosis of peri-and postoperative complications.
Sonography with color duplex imaging is the method of choice in the diagnosis of acute transplant rejection.
MRI is an additional method in the diagnosis of transplant dysfunction especially in diagnosis of perirenal fluid collections.
MR angiography and MR urography are noninvasive diagnostic modalities with the potential to replace angiography and pyelography.
Angiography, complemented by carbon dioxide angiography, still is the gold standard in the diagnosis of transplant artery stenosis.
Nutrients and trophic factors independent of nutritional substrates influence the proliferation and the differentiation of the cells that make up the intestinal wall.
The resorptive mucosa must be differentiated from immunologically active cells of the "gut-associated lymphatic tissue" (GALT).
Glutamine is the main oxidative substrate of enterocytes and an important nitrogen donor; its importance becomes apparent in very sick patients.
The amino acids arginine and ornithine are mainly important for immunological gut cells as precursors of NO and polyamine synthesis.
Complex carbohydrates are fermented in the lower gut portions to short-chain fatty acids, mainly acetic, propionic and butyric acid.
The trophic effect of these acids is also mediated via an improvement of blood flow.
Among the trophic substances independent of nutrients are the hormones gastrin and enteroglucagon and various growth factors, contributing to the maintenance of a eutrophic gut mucosa.
We investigated 88 Patients with a total of 102 angiographically diagnosed intracranial aneurysms by means of transcranial colour coded Duplex sonography (TCCD) during a time period of 15 months.
Both the size and teh localization of teh aneuryms were determined.
Seventy aneurysms (77%) with a diameter of 16 +/- 8 mm (6-55mm) were detectable, with excellent visualization in 36 (42%), moderate visualization in 34 (40%), and no sufficient visualization in 16 (16%) aneurysms, respectively.
In another 16 cases (16%) there was no sufficient vone window.
Thrombotic material inside the aneurysm was detectable in 16/20 cases (75%), visualization of coil embolized aneurysms in 12/25 patients (48%).
TCCD allows the follow up of cerebral aneurysms, with the detection of thrombosis and treatment effects after embolization.
The method is not valid for the detection of intracranial aneurysms
The authors report the case of a young patient suffering from plasmacellular osteomyelitis of the thoracic spine, a unusual localisation of this type of chronic osteomyelitis.
They discuss the role of imaging diagnostic modalities in this disease, focussing on MRI.
The Heidelberg retina tomograph (HRT) is a new instrument to analyze the three-dimensional structure of the retina.
It is based on confocal laser scanning technology.
Scientific interest has so far focused on the follow-up of glaucomatous optic nerve head damage.
As parameters such as cup depth and cup volume can be reproduced with a high degree of accuracy, this new instrument may prove to be an excellent tool to follow up swelling of the optic disk.
Evaluation of three patients, aged between three months and five years because of failure to thrive and persistent diarrhea revealed the diagnosis of small bowel bacterial overgrowth.
A combination of a typical history, endoscopy, laboratory, radiological and histological methods as well as the breath hydrogen test were used.
All patients had preexisting intestinal disease: two (former premature infants) had been operated several times because of necrotizing enterocolitis including resection of larger parts of small bowel.
The third patient was suffering from pancolonic Hirschsprung's disease.
All patients gained weight and reported less complaints after antibiotic treatment with metronidazole.
Discussion: Small bowel bacterial overgrowth has to be considered in the differential diagnosis of failure to thrive, especially in cases with preexisting intestinal disease.
The diagnosis may be substantiated by a combination of indirect methods.
Direct bacteriologic analysis is difficult.
Usually, antibiotic treatment leads to a good weight gain after a short period of time.
In contrast to carotid endarterectomy, the indication for vertebral surgery is not standardized.
In a prospective study including 44 patients, it was investigated whether extended diagnostics help in making the decision as to whether operative treatment should be given.
The diagnostic procedures included DSA, CCT, MRI, 24 h ECG, otoneurological, and neurological examination, and ultrasonic flow measurement.
We compared the diagnostic results before and after surgery with the subjective symptoms of the patients.
Two different surgical procedures were used: transposition of the vertebral artery to the CCA or graft implantation between CCA and atlas loop.
In the follow up period (6 - 9 months), 72% of the patients had improved or were without complaints.
The validity of the applied diagnostic parameters relating to a successful operation were disappointing especially the ultrasonic flow measurement.
In our opinion, exact anamnesis and sufficient angiography are decisive for the indication of vertebral surgery.
It has long been a goal to develop a means to measure squint angles in three dimensions simultaneously.
A three-dimensional binocular method is naturally needed especially with surgical procedures that affect three dimensions of ocular motility.
In situations of depressed myocardial function, the role of immunological mechanisms has been studied recently.
In different pathophysiological situations, such as chronic heart failure, open heart surgery with extracorporal circulation, cardiac transplantation, myocardial infarction and angina pectoris, patterns have been described with elevation of proinflammatory cytokines, such as tumor necrosis factor-, interleukin-1, interleukin-6, and reversible myocardial dysfunction, which may represent a final common pathway.
The available data suggest a modulation of important determinants of pump function, i.e., contractility, preload, afterload, and heart rate, by cytokines.
Potential mechanisms include the -adrenoceptor- and nitric oxide pathway, as well as a direct impact on intracellular calcium homeostasis.
Interventional strategies based on this understanding are beginning to emerge.
A prospective randomized study was designed to determine the effect of postoperative water contact on tissue healing.
A total of 121 patients undergoing open hernia repair was divided into two groups.
The first group was permitted to shower postoperatively, allowing the wound to come into direct contact with the water, the second group was instructed to keep the incision dry.
Water contact, wound healing and patient satisfaction were assessed.
There was no difference in wound healing between the two groups and no manifest infection.
In children and adolescents motor/vocal tics and obsessive-compulsive behavior are known to be closely related.
Thereby, a continuum of symptoms ranging from single tics to a mixed picture of tics/rituals/obsessive-compulsive traits to clinically relevant obsessions and compulsions could be described.
As neurobiological substrates dysfunctions in corresponding cortico-striato-thalamo-cortical circuits (sensorimotor circuit in tic symptomatology, orbitofrontal circuit in obsessive-compulsive behavior) were postulated.
For both disturbances behavioral therapy can be used to improve control mechanisms to counterregulate tics and obsessive-compulsive behavior, respectively, and psychopharmacological agents can be administerd to compensate dysbalances in neurotransmitter systems.
In case of a mixed symptomatologic picture it is necessary to include interventions for both pols of the symptom-continuum in the therapeutic programme to achieve extensive improvement as a basis for a further positive development of the patient.
As laparoscopic cholecystectomy becomes more established, interest in legal aspects increases.
The legal cases dealt with in Germany since the introduction of this laparoscopic method in 1989 were studied to determine the legal consequences of complications.
Of 40 cases, 16 were judged to be cases of malpractice, whereas 24 were not.
The most common cause was injury of the common bile duct (26 cases).
Seven of these 26 cases were judged to be cases of malpractice, 2 of these as grave errors.
The main reasons for the acceptance of a case as malpractice were delay in changing to conventional cholecystectomy, delayed revision, laparoscopic revisions and not reverting to conventional cholecystectomy in unclear situations.
Purpose of this review is, to highlight key issues in transplantation medicine today and to summarise basic information on current state of perfused organ transplantation.
There is special emphasis on ethical and legal considerations with regard to living donor transplantation, brain death concept, donor consent and organ allocation.
Transplantation frequencies and the impact of whole organ transplantation on the treatment concept for patients with end stage organ disease is heavily dependent on donor and organ availability.
Organ donor rate of 25 to 30 donors per million inhabitants per year seems to yield sufficient organ supply for patients on renal replacement therapy.
15 to 20 liver transplantations per million inhabitants per year, my be sufficient, to cover the need of organs for non malignant end stage liver diseases.
This frequency my be achieved by increasing donor rates and employing "split techniques", where one liver is used for two recipients.
One year graft survival in kidney transplantation can be expected to be between 85 and 90 %, one year patient survival in heart and liver transplantation can be expected to be beyond 80 %.
The risk of organ failure is highest in the first year, long term results are dependent on incidence of chronic rejection, comorbidity of the patient and original disease.
Patient- and/or graft loss after the first year is in the order of 1 to 5 %.
Whole organ transplantation for kidneys, hearts and livers are considered routine procedures, lung transplantation is reaching standard phase, pancreas and combined pancreas kidney transplantation is well established technically, but its indication is still controversial.
Laser-induced interstitial thermotherapy (LITT) is a promising method of treating different types of tumors.
To increase the effectiveness of LITT, a new thermo-controlled application system for minimal invasive intervention was designed.
This laser system consists of a laser applicator 3 mm in diameter, insertion equipment and an Nd:YAG laser source.
The power of the laser source is controlled dynamically by thermosensors in a water-cooling system of the laser applicator.
In in vivo experiments in five pigs, within 10 min we found homogeneous coagulation regions in the liver that were of 3 cm and 5 cm in diameter.
Via ultrasound we observed in real time the increasing coagulation zone that appeared as a hyperechogenic halo.
However, due to perifocal edema, the real coagulation area was smaller than detected by ultrasound.
Macroscopically and microscopically, the coagulation zones showed well-demarcated borders of the coagulation lesions, and the surrounding tissue appeared vital.
The reparative reaction after irradiation was early fibrosis.
In the course of 4 weeks, the surrounding scar capsule, containing fibrocytes, biliary ductules and collagen fibers enlarged.
As a result, the coagulation necrosis became more and more fragmented between collagen fibers and was largely resorbed.
The absence of complications in our animal experiments suggest that the technique of thermo-controlled laser light application is safe and useful in therapy for metastases that are not resectable.
Attachment theory, originally developed by John Bowlby, becomes increasingly relevant in the field of psychotherapy (research).
This review starts with a definition of central concepts and hypotheses of this theory and summarizes results regarding the development as well as correlates of attachment, mainly from research in developmental psychology.
Related to adults, attachment theory has to be reconceptualized which is done in another part of this paper.
Finally, some common methods for the assessment of adult attachment are described which play an important role in clinical studies (these will be the content of the part 2 of this review).
Inflammation-mediated osteopenia is an animal model for bone mass reduction following chronic inflammation.
We found a reduction of calcitriol serum concentrations during the inflammatory process, in addition cytokines are increased.
Treatment of the animals with calcitriol is able to prevent bone mass reduction and to preserve bone formation.
Anxiolysis with drugs and psychoprophylaxis are both recognised methods of preoperative preparation.
The beneficial effects of anxiolytics, however, appear to be difficult to prove.
In this study a comparison was made of heart rate (HR), blood pressure (BP), and norepinephrine, epinephrine, and cortisol levels.
In group I 19 children recieved only psychological treatment, while in group II 21 children received 0.2 mg/kg midazolam orally.
Measuring points were directly before medication, 30 min afterward, and at induction of anaesthesia.
During the observation period the patients (5-10 years old) remained calm.
At the beginning of the study the parameters of all patients were within a normal range; 30 min after premedication the HR and BP were significantly higher in group I than in group II.
In contrast to group I, epinephrine levels in group II were lower at the beginning of anaesthesia than before premedication.
In both groups, norepinephrine levels were the same at induction of anaesthesia as before premedication.
Cortisol decreased only in patients who received midazolam.
HR, BP, as well as humoral stress parameters indicate that midazolam in a dose of 0.2 mg/kg orally is sufficient to reduce preoperative stress in children.
A case of isolated right ventricular myocardial tuberculoma with pericardial effusions is presented.
The diagnosis of myocardial tuberculoma was initially suggested by echocardiography and later by magnetic resonance imaging.
The diagnosis of cardiac tuberculosis was confirmed by demonstration of tubercle bacilli in the pericardial fluid.
This is a very rare condition which is usually diagnosed only by necropsy.
Myocardial tuberculoma should figure on the list of intraparietal masses visualized at echocardiography.
The incidence of hepatitis A infections has decreased due to improved hygienic conditions in Germany.
However, hepatitis A is one of the most important diseases imported to the country.
Currently, more than the half of all registered hepatitis A infections are acquired in foreign countries.
According to the decreased morbidity over the past few decades most younger people (age below 50 years) are not immunized and, subsequently, this age group is at higher risk during exposure in foreign countries.
Therefore, a hepatitis A vaccination is recommended before travelling in countries with a higher incidence of hepatitis A (Southern Europe, Africa, South America, and Asia).
Lactic Acid Bacteria (LAB) are a group of Gram-positive organism, which have in common a fermentative metabolism with lactic acid as the major end-product.
Except for bifidobacteria, the LAB are phylogenetically closely related.
They directly contribute to human well-being as they are the most important germs in the production process of fermented foods which constitute one fourth of our diet.
They are, furthermore, an essential component of the mucosal flora and especially of the intestinal flora.
The genus Streptococcus contains highly pathogenic species which can be clearly differentiated from the useful germs.
The intestinal flora contains such species of the genus Lactobacillus that are also important in food fermentation and species which are strongly adapted to the intestines and therefore, can be found exclusively in this ecological niche.
A special status characterises bifidobacteria and enterococci.
The former are located in a separate phylogenetic branch and also occur virtually exclusively in the intestines.
Enterococci are rather ubiquitous, participate in indigenous food fermentations, are found in the mucosal flora and are counted as opportunistic pathogens.
To influence the intestinal flora and to achieve health promoting effects LAB are isolated from the intestinal flora, grown and employed either as pharmaceutical preparations or additions to food (usually fermented milk).
These bacteria are termed "probiotics".
The exposition of consumers to high numbers of germs belonging to one or a few species needs an evaluation of their safety for human health.
In this process the traditional experience with the safe nature of the species can serve as an important criterion.
In front of this background, LAB in probiotics can be considered to be especially safe, nevertheless some restrictions have to be made.
Generally, the germs used should not contain genes encoding transmissible resistance to antibiotics.
In addition they should not produce biogenic amines (e.g.
histamine, tyrosine or phenylethylamine) and should not degrade mucine.
The assessment may also include the following: absence of a potential for deconjugation of bile salts, induction of platelet aggregation and binding to fibrinogen and fibronectine.
These examinations may be required as certain LAB have been identified in clinical isolates.
The isolates were, however, obtained in the most majority of cases from debilitated patients.
The germs were components of the body flora as well as of the environment, organisms deliberately employed in food fermentations or probiotics have never been isolated.
Dural sinus thrombosis is not uncommon.
Due to the nonspecific symptomatology, as well as the manifold etiology, clinical diagnosis may be difficult.
In these cases imaging procedures are frequently crucial in deciding how to proceed and how to treat.
The aim of our study was to evaluate the diagnostic utility of helical CT in the detection of dural sinus thrombosis.
In 20 patients with clinically suspected thrombosis CT angiography was performed.
In 6 patients dural sinus thrombosis was diagnosed.
In order to acquire also arterial vessels, a short delay of about 22 s after the onset of the application of contrast medium was selected.
By this method we found an occlusion of the MCA in two patients with clinically suspected sinus thrombosis.
In all patients the transverse slices and the multiplanar reconstructions showed filling defects or an "empty delta" sign.
With irregular outlines the thrombus could be depicted over the complete course of the sinus.
The MIP reconstructions were particularly helpful in the evaluation of the vessel anatomy and the pathological collateral venous drainage.
In three patients MR angiograms were available for comparison.
The smaller veins, such as the v. vermis inferior, were less clearly depicted than in CT angiography.
CT angiography is a fast and reliable method to exclude or verify a sinus thrombosis.
It can be performed immediately after non-enhanced CT.
According to our present experience CT angiography is sufficient for the diagnosis of a sinus thrombosis.
Coronary angiography ist considered to be the most important component in the diagnosis of coronary artery disease.
Only the lumen may be visualized using contrast radiography of the coronary arteries, however.
With intravascular ultrasound, on the other hand, pathological changes in the vascular wall can be recorded.
Despite typical symptoms, an angiographical image of the coronary arteries is sometimes unable to show unambiguous stenotic lesions of the coronary arteries.
In such cases, intravascular ultrasound provides a new complementary diagnostic tool for detecting even early forms of arteriosclerosis or angiographically underestimated coronary findings.
Two cases are used to illustrate this.
In those, angiographic visualization of the coronary arteries was unable to produce an unambiguous finding despite typical clinical symptoms, yet intravascular ultrasound could detect considerable arteriosclerotic wall changes.
Purpose: The pontine micturition center plays a central role in regulating the micturition reflex, but the precise neural mechanisms are unclear.
The cerebral cortex is involved in coordinating micturition but there is little knowledge on specific evolutionary higher brain regions.
The present study aimed to investigate whether cortical activation during micturition can be demonstrated by EEG power spectra patterns and to explore whether specific cortical regions involved in the interaction of inhibition and release during the micturition reflex can be discerned.
We also aimed to test whether intravesical electrostimulation (IVES) therapy in patients with micturition disorders has an effect on patterns of cortical activity.
Background: Indirect traumatic optic neuropathy represents a severe, potential vision-threatening disease process that requires close interdisciplinary cooperation for treatment.
In general, any therapy has been dis-cussed controversially in the literature.
Based upon experiences with spinal cord trauma, high-dose steroid therapy is recommended initially to minimize secondary consequences following orbital trauma.
The usefulness of surgical decompression of the optic nerve has been confirmed in several studies but is still not recommended in principle.
In recent years there has been an increasing incidence of streptococcal toxic shock-like syndrome (TSLS) in otherwise healthy adults.
It is characterized by fever, rash, hypotension and early shock with consecutive organ failure and a mortality rate of about 30 %.
This paper describes the history of two patients with severe streptococcal TSLS.
Various aspects of the pathophysiology, diagnosis and therapy are discussed.
Only early, aggressive and repeated surgical debridement can reduce the bacterial load and decrease circulating exotoxins and thereby, in combination with antibiotic therapy, decrease the high mortality of this entity.
Purpose: To test, whether axial, coronal and sagittal MIP and MPR reconstructions of diagnostic quality can be obtained from 1-mm collimation MSCT data of the chest for the evaluation of thoracic anatomy and pathology.
The risk to health posed by a sedentary lifestyle is a problem of our times.
In contrast to the previous assumption that only fairly high-intensity sporting exercise undertaken over a minimum period of 20 min produces health-related benefits, recent studies have shown that even everyday activitites (climbing stairs, brisk walking and cycling) can have a benedicial effects on health, particularly in those who take little exercise.
So now the recommendation is: exercise of moderate intensity lasting 30 min at least 5 times a week, corresponding to an energy consumption of about 150 kacl/day or 1000 kcal/week.
The results of experimental studies on sport and arthritis and sport and osteoporosis point to the advisability of taking up or maintaining an active sporting lifestyle.
For one thing, it can be assumed that a moderate amount of movement does not increase the risk of developing arthritis: for another, sporting activity during early and late childhood produces a high maximum bone mass, therby delaying the development of osteoporosis in later life.
The new guidelines on the extent and intensity of health-giving exercise make it easier to advocate exercise and sport for disease prevention and health promotion because they appear to implement.
More difficult, however, is deciding on a suitable method for motivating inactive individuals to increase their level of physical acitivity.
A model that has proved effective in smoking cessation programmes, and one that can also be applied to exercise counselling (transtheoretical model), can help in the selection of an appropriate counselling strategy.
Depending on whether an individual is inactive, or sporadically or regularly active, each one employs his or her own strategies primarily to maintain this lifestyle.
Assuming that the counselling is adapted to the level of activity, the patient's attitude and behaviour can be influenced both more effectively and more economically.
Background: Photorefraktive keratectomy (PRK) is the most frequent refractive surgical procedure worldwide.
The central corneal thickness is reduced due to removal of the anterior stroma, including Bowman's layer, with a laser beam.
This procedure results in considerable alterations of the corneal structure.
What does this mean for the mechanical properties of the cornea?
Beginning in the 1920s Wilhelm Reich developed the fundamental concepts of a body-oriented psychotherapy out of psychoanalysis.
He started from considerations of egopathology, sexuality and the analysis of resistance and character patterns.
Characterological and bodily attitudes were understood as defence-patterns against emotions, which function not only psychologically but also bodily.
Thus he began to mobilize repressed affects through working on muscular tensions and bodily expressions.
That way their meaning in the person's history could be understood and a self-healing process restarted.
This approach to release constrained energy is still valid for neoreichian schools such as bioenergetics, biodynamics, biosynthesis and others whose understanding of human nature and of healing processes is similar to those of other schools of humanistic psychotherapy.
Bodily processes are used as indicators for the processes and successes of therapies.
Besides there are impulses in modern body psychotherapies to work with the body in the relationship and transference process and attempts to reintegrate psychoanalytical concepts.
Recurrent phlebothromboses in young patients with subsequent severe postthrombotic syndrome and chronic venous leg ulcers may be caused by underlying hereditary disorders of hemostasis or may occur as part of other congenital syndromes.
The most common hereditary disorders of hemostasis in this respect appear to be deficiencies of antithrombin III, protein C, and protein S, and activated protein C resistance (mutations of factor V).
Less frequently, dysfibrinogenemia, increased plasminogen activator inhibitor levels, or deficiencies of tissue plasminogen activator or heparin cofactor II may be found.
Klinefelter's syndrome and homocystinuria are prime examples of those rare congenital disorders indirectly associated with an elevated risk of thrombosis in young individuals.
Early diagnosis of these disorders will allow timely treatment, preventive care and counselling of patients as well as family members.
Epidurography with contrast medium is used to verify the correct poition of an epidural catheter and to detect malpositioning.
There is great variability in the distribution of contrast medium according to the individual morphology of the epidural space and the way it is injected.
Results of investigations of the anatomy of the spinal canal and epidural space performed with anatomic specimens, epiduroscopy, and conventional and computed tomographic (CT) epidurography are sometimes contradictory.
We have performed CT epidurography in approximately 30 patients to date.
Insights regarding the distribution of contrast medium in the epidural space can help to interpret conventional epidurographies and to explain special features, such as the "rail-road-track phenomenon" or the plica mediana dorsalis.
Patients scheduled for major abdominal operations were studied.
Catheters were introduced into the thoracic epidural space on the day before the operation.
Conventional epidurographies were performed routinely after insertion of the catheters with a mobile X-ray apparatus, usually in the recovery room, using 5 ml iopamidol (Solutrast 250 M).
Selected patients (good mental state and stable psychic condition), after written consent and with approval of the local ethical committee, were investigated with CT epidurography using the same contrast medium (partly diluted).
From among the CT scans performed until now, five characteristic images are presented and compared to conventional epidurographies.
When small volumes (5 mL) of iopamidol were injected slowly, we regularly observed a railroad-track phenomenon in the AP images of conventional epidurographies.
After rapid injection of larger volumes (10 - 15 ml), the spread was more homogeneous and sometimes outline a lighter zone of contrast distribution in the midline.
CT epidurography in these cases (5 out of 30 patients) revealed a plica mediana dorsalis.
In the majority of the CT scans of the thoracic epidural space its anterior (ventral) compartment was unfilled by contrast medium.
According to the findings of several investigators, dura mater and ligamentum longitudinale posterius have grown together, so that an epidural space does not exist in ventral thoracic segments of the spinal canal.
In lower thoracic and lumbar segments both structures are separate, and a wide anterior epidural space was present and filled with contrast medium.
In other cases the dorsal and dorsolateral epidural space was completely filled, but the contrast medium stopped behind the spinal nerves and surrounding dural sheaths, as if these structures, together with the connective tissue strands between them, formed a membrane that spread in a frontal plane.
A railroad-track phenomenon is interpreted in the literature as the X-ray correlate of contrast medium spread in the subdural space, indicating an incorrect catheter position.
According to conventional epidurographies and confirmed by CT scans, this feature is also seen regulary in cases with correct catheter position.
Small volumes of iopamidol spread preferentially into the wider parts of the epidural space between the gaps of the vertebral arcs, whereas the dura mater and periosteal layers touch at the inner side of the pedicules and laminae, allowing the existence of only a potential epidural space.
This rhythmic widening and narrowing of the epidural space is the explanation of the "railroad track" in AP contrast epidurographies.
CT epidurography is a valuable tool to provide better insight into the morphology of the epidural space when filled with fluid (contrast medium, local anaesthetics), complementing findings using epiduroscopy and anatomic specimens.
It stands to reason that this time- and cost-expensive method can never replace conventional epidurographies, but can help to interpret them properly.
A 71-year-old woman suffered from pronounced erosion of her nose after soft X-ray therapy (total dose 28 Gy, half dose depth 10.5-11.5 mm).
5 weeks after the end of the irradiation no healing tendency was observed.
This unusual clinical course was caused by a simultaneously existing pemphigus vulgaris that worsened after radiotherapy, presumably as a consequence of the release of epidermal antigens.
In this case it is improbable that the pemphigus was induced by the radiotherapy, as has been reported on several occasions in the literature.
However, this possibility cannot be entirely excluded.
A vascular etiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) has been long debated.
In order to search for an ischemic basis of PD we assessed the clinical symptomatology of a consecutive group of 60 PD patients and compaired their frequency of cerebrovascular risk factors, carotid atherosclerosis and ischemic brain lesions with age-matched groups of stroke patients and normals.
There were 16 (27%) subjects with PD who also had symptoms of cerebrovascular disease.
The frequencies of carotid stenoses, ischemic brain lesions and most of cerebrovascular risk factors seen in the latter group was comparable with those of stroke patients and significantly higher than in the investigational subsets of patients with "pure" PD and normals.
Only one (1.6%) individual with PD presented signs suggestive of an ischemic etiology of parkinsonism.
These findings suggest that cerebrovascular disease occurs in approximately one fourth of patients with PD, but seldomly is causally related.
Neurological involvement is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with sarcoidosis.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the diagnosis of patients with neurosarcoidosis.
The MRI brain scans of 22 patients with sarcoidosis were retrospectively reviewed, along with the clinical information provided in the request form.
All patients had signs and symptoms referable to the head and were examined with gadolinium enhancement.
Cranial (facial) nerve paralysis was the most common clinical manifestation identified in 10 patients.
A wide spectrum of MR findings was noted: periventricular and white matter lesions on T2 W spin echo images, mimicking multiple sclerosis (46%); multiple supratentorial and infratentorial brain lesions, mimicking metastases (36%); solitary intraaxial mass, mimicking high-grade astrocytoma (9%); solitary extraaxial mass, mimicking meningioma (5%); leptomeningeal enhancement (36%).
The diagnosis of neurosarcoidosis is often difficult, particularly so in patients who lack either pulmonary or systemic manifestations of sarcoidosis.
MRI shows a wide spectrum of brain abnormalities associated with neurosarcoidosis.
These findings, however, are not specific for sarcoidosis and one must consider appropriate clinical circumstances in arriving at the correct diagnosis.
In selected cases with isolated brain involvement, meningeal or cerebral biopsy may be required.
In 1990, we first described the papular-purpuric "gloves and socks" syndrome (PPGSS).
It is characterized by an itching erythema and edema of the hands and feet together with oral mucosal lesions and fever.
The skin  lesions subsequently become purpuric and resolve spontaneously after a few days.
In more than half of the patients, an acute parvovirus B 19 infection has been proven.
In a few cases of PPGSS, other viral infections have been found, for example hepatitis B and measles.
We report on a patient with PPGSS and review the literature.
Fungus-bezoars in the renal pelvis are an unusual manifestation of severe Candida albicans infection.
A newborn infant with VACTERL-association suffered from fungus balls in the renal pelvis after Candida albicans sepsis, and developed a hydronephrosis with beginning postrenal failure.
Following systemic antimycotic therapy with amphotericin B and flucytosin as well as local irrigation with amphotericin B via percutaneous nephrostomy renal function normalised rapidly.
Discussion: Since the incidence of systemic mycotic infection in neonates becomes more common the differential diagnosis of nephrolithiasis should include fungus balls.
Interactional understanding in psychoanalysis, especially the concept of the 'third point', suggests that the development of insight, empathy and relationship are dimensions of one and the same triangulating process peculiar to psychoanalytic understanding.
In this context the psychoanalytic method, here understood as working with resistance, transference and countertransference, does not only offer a route to cognition, but also to the formation of a conflict-solving, egostrengthening, and supportive relationship peculiar to psychoanalysis.
The formula 'interpretation on the basis of countertransference' describes a form of psychoanalytic interpretation that takes up this context intentionally and can thus also be used for crisis intervention in the case of neurotic conflicts.
This is exemplified by a case history.
The Dutch Supreme Court ruled that in exceptional instances, physician-assisted suicide might be justifiable for patients with unbearable mental suffering but no physical illness.
A recent report shows that explicit requests for physician-assisted suicide are not uncommon in psychiatric practice in the Netherlands.
Some of those requests were granted and their medical background was described.
Psychiatric consultation for medical patients who request physician-assisted suicide is relatively rare.
Pemphigus is a rare intraepidermal autoimmune bullous disease.
Two major variants, pemphigus vulgaris (PV) and pemphigus foliaceus (PF), are distinguished.
The aim of this study was to document the clinical and immunpathological findings in all pemphigus patients who were diagnosed in the Department of Dermatology at the University of Würzburg over the past 10 years.
Post-dural puncture headache (PDPH) is a significant complication of spinal anaesthesia.
Diameter and tip of the needle as well as the patient's age have been proven to be important determinants.
The question of whether post-operative recumbency can reduce the risk of PDPH has not been answered uniformly.
And besides, some studies referring to this subject reveal methodical failures, for example, as to clear definition and exact documentation of post-operative immobilization.
Furthermore, fine-gauge needles (26G or more) have not been investigated yet.
The first aim of our study was therefore to examine the role of recumbency in the prevention of PDPH under controlled conditions using thin needles.
Secondly, we wanted to confirm the reported prophylactic effect of needles with a modified, atraumatic tip (Whitacre and Atraucan) by comparing them to Quincke needles of identical diameter.
Most of the former investigators compared Quincke with atraumatic needles of different size regardless of the known influence of the diameter on PDPH.
Three characteristic developments in modern western societies usually are considered to be independent variables in the ethical discussion:...
Background: Neuropathic pain syndromes may be treated by intervention at the sympathetic nervous system.
The pain in these syndromes is therefore called sympathetically maintained pain (SMP).
Typical disorders with a SMP component are complex regional pain syndromes (reflex sympathetic dystrophy and causalgia), traumatic neuralgias and herpes zoster.
The tendency towards sphincter-preserving resection for distal rectal cancers has led to a revival of the technique of coloanal anastomosis (CAA) in recent years.
In order to improve functional results, creation of a colonic J-pouch in conjunction with a coloanal anastomosis (CPA) was proposed.
Two different operation techniques exist: i) Double-stapling with the anastomosis close to the dentate line and ii) intersphincteric resection with the anastomosis located immediately at the dentate line.
A long rectal remnant after double-stapling leads to urgency in 15 % of the patients due to stool retention in the atonic remnant.
No propulsive motility patterns were recorded from the pouch which is emptyed passively by upper colonic peristalsis.
Therefore colonic pouches should be fashionned of descending colon and should not exceed a length of 6 cm in order to prevent stool fragmentation.
Under these conditions the average stool frequency is reduced from 2-6 /d after CAA to 1-3 /d after CPA.
This effect is maximal during the first postoperative months, but is still significant after 3 years.
Colonic pouch construction also leads, due to better blood supply and prevention of pelvic hematomas, to a significant decrease of the anastomotic insufficiency rate from 10,0 % after CAA to 5,4 % after CPA.
Therefore creation of a colonic J-pouch should be combined with coloanal reconstruction if the oncologic situation allows a sphincter-preserving procedure.
Background: Workers in the construction industry carry an increased risk for head and neck cancer due to the high consumption of alcohol and tobacco plus exposure to occupational carcinogenic or co-carcinogenic agents.
These latter substances include asbestos, tar products, metal dust, wood dust, cement dust and paints.
Presently, there are no well-defined standards for documentation of echocardiographic studies.
Nevertheless, standards are essential to provide comparability of data and to realize electronic communication, both essential for quality management in echocardiography.
Embolia cutis medicamentosa (Nicolau Syndrom) is a very rare complication of intramuscular injections which presents with extensive necrosis of the injected skin area.
Intra-arterial and/or para-arterial injections after prior perforation of certain vessels are discussed as possible pathogenetic mechanisms.
We describe the occurrence of embolia cutis medicamentosa after intra-articular injections into the knee.
In a 30-beds-unit of the Orthopedic University Clinic in Bochum for an example we studied the frequency of combined injection therapy with local anesthesia and chirotherapy in a one year period.
There have been done 191 injections into ileosacral joints as well as 28 injections into facett joints of the cervical spine and additionally 315 into facett joints of the lumbar spine.
On the other side there have been done 122 chirotherapeutic maneuvers at cervical, thoracic or lumbar spine by senior doctors with education in manual medicine.
The injection therapy however was done in mean predilection sites of the patients suffering from cervical spine disorders or low back pain, the chirotherapy was done in other spine areas.
The growing number of doctors with an education in manual medicine seems to improve the chirotherapy of the mean pathology as well, but it is not able to reduce the number of local injection therapy.
In a retrospective case control study at the University of Frankfurt, Germany, 101 babies born to opiate-addicted mothers were identified from birth charts from 1988 to 1995.
After birth, they developed a withdrawal syndrome (neonatal abstinence syndrome).
Fifty control infants and their mothers were selected from neonatal wards.
The group of opiate-exposed babies was subdivided into a group born to mothers without methadone treatment (n=48) and a group born to mothers who were enrolled in a methadone program (n=51).
The methadone infants had a significantly higher mean birth weight (2822 g) than children in the group without methadone (2471 g).
The abstinence syndrome was much more intense in the methadone group (convulsions 47.1%) than in heroin-exposed babies without methadone treatment (convulsions 27.1%).
Women in methadone maintenance programs lived in more stable socioeconomic conditions than opiate-addicted women without methadone substitution.
Moreover, they cared significantly better for their babies: 81.3% of the methadone mothers visited their children on a regular basis and 90.9% cared adequately.
The data emphasize the need in future research to look more closely at the role of methadone treatment programs in the development of opiate-exposed babies.
Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is an autosomal dominant hereditary disease of high penetrance and variable expression.
Epidemiologic data on craniofacial manifestations are still lacking.
Up until now 74 patients with NF1 have been treated at the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery of the University of Hamburg.
Forty-two patients presented periorbital and orbital neurofibromas varying in extension and in the severity of findings of the affected site.
Surgical therapy is mainly based on tumour reduction, frequently combined with face-lifting.
In our experience neurofibromas of the neck tend to be pseudo-encapsulated, facilitating the preparation of the tumour.
On the other hand, identification and preparation of diffuse infiltrating neurofibromas in the trigeminal nerve region are difficult and local recurrence must be expected.
Objective: The revised Edwards-Duromedics valve was introduced onto the market in June 1990.
In September 1993, the producer changed the name of the valve to TEKNA, which is a low profile, bileaflet, mechanical prosthesis with a self-irrigating hinge mechanism.
The results of a prospective follow-up study after valve replacement with this prosthesis are presented.
A granular cell tumor is one of the rare tumors of the esophagus.
We present the case of a 65-year-old male patient, who was admitted to our hospital for an elective cholecystectomy.
In the routine diagnostic gastroscopy an intramural tumor in the distal esophagus was incidentally found.
Repeated endoscopic biopsies did not reveal the histologic diagnosis, although endoscopic ultrasound invasion to the tunica muscularis could not be excluded.
After indicating the operative therapy, the tumor was removed through a thoracoscopic approach.
The histologic specimen showed a granular cell tumor of the esophagus (tumor of Abrikossoff).
Since the tumor grade was unknown, our therapy seemed to be justified because of the low risk involved in minimally invasive operative procedures.
There has been much discussion and controversy in the literature on this subject, including the potential for malignancy and the correct therapy regime, with a general shift to conservative or minimally invasive treatment.
The case is discussed with a review of the literature.
This review deals with the differential diagnosis and treatment of critically ill neuromuscular patients.
Acute muscular weakness may be a sign of newly acquired neuromuscular disorders or of an exacerbation of a previously existing disease.
Typical features of the more common neuromuscular conditions are presented and the problems of neurocritical care delineated.
The appropriate ancillary tests are presented.
Psychiatric care for chronic schizophrenic patients has improved in recent years, but for severely ill patients, often with multiple comorbid psychiatric conditions and in great need of care, the situation remains unsatisfactory.
Community-based psychiatric care is limited and psychiatric hospitals are now cutting back on inpatient care.
The quality of care that chronically mentally ill patients receive at independant psychiatric nursing homes removed from population centers is undetermined, and many patients end up in asylums or homeless shelters unable to provide for their psychiatric needs.
Neither a reliable way to assess the needs of these complicated patients nor a scientific basis for therapeutic intervention exists yet.
A diagnostic scoring system, recently published by Ohmann et al.
in this journal, was validated by analyzing the clinicopathological data of a consecutive series of 2,359 patients, admitted for suspicion of acute appendicitis.
The results of the scoring system were compared to the results of clinical evaluation by junior (provisional) and senior surgeons (final clinical diagnosis).
To assess the diagnostic ability of the score, the accuracy and positive predictive value were defined as the major diagnostic performance parameters; the rate of theoretical negative laparotomies and that of diagnostic errors served as the major procedural performance parameters.
Of 2,359 patients admitted for suspected acute appendicitis, 662 were proven to have acute appendicitis by histology, for a prevalence of 28 %.
The overall sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and accuracy of the provisional clinical diagnosis were 0.50, 0.94, 0.77, 0.83, and 0.82; 0.93, for the score 0.63, 0.93, 0.77, 0.86 and 0.84, and for the final clinical diagnosis 0.90, 0.94, 0.85, 0.96, and 0.93, respectively.
Of the main diagnostic performance parameter, the accuracy of the score was signifianctly better than that of provisional clinical diagnosis (P < 0.05, 2 test).
The score yielded a rate of negative appendecomies and laparotomies of 14.3 and 12.3 %.
With respect to the rate of overlooked cases of acute apendicitis, the score demonstrated a superior performance, with only 6 cases missed (0.9 %).
However, the number of patients with acute appendicitis, including those with perforated disease, who were not identified by the score, was almost four times that of the final clinical diagnosis (245 vs 63).
With regard to the main procedural performance parameter, the score resulted in a significantly smaller number of diagnostic errors than the provisional clinical investigator (P < 0.05, 2 test).
The results of this study indicate that the diagnostic scoring system might be helpful when experienced investigators or additional diagnostic modalities such as ultrasonography are not available.
It may therefore be of value in the preclinical evaluation of patients with suspected acute appendicitis and may be instrumental as a quality control tool and in clinical guidelines.
Purpose: The standards and regulations concerning the protection of patients and operator staff within the context of MRI are compiled.
Resulting consequences regarding physical parameters are evaluated.
Replacement of the tracheal conduit remains an unresolved problem.
The microporous material expanded polytetrafluorethylene (ePTFE) is suitable for tracheal reconstruction.
The aim of our study was to improve the limited mechanical properties of this material by incorporating reinforcement elements and to examine the influence of these elements on host incorporation and epithelialization.
In so dours ePTFE prostheses were reinforced with Ionomer cement and porous high density polyethylene (pHDPE) rings and implanted into the neck muscle of miniature pigs.
One of these prostheses was epithelialized by a cell seeding technique and was thus placed into a tracheal defect.
Results were examined grossly by endoscopy and than by light and scanning electron microscopy.
The shapes of both types of prostheses showed a high stability.
The reinforcement elements did not impair bioincorporation or the ability to epithelialize.
In vivo interposition of an incorporated and epithelialized prosthesis to a host led to cell differentiation.
The improved biomechanical properties of the prostheses waid and the reproducible formation of epitheliums are important advances in the solution of effectively correcting tracheal defects.
Primary infection with human herpesviruses 6 and 7 (HHV-6 and HHV-7) during early childhood causes permanent latent infection, usually without any ill effects; only a small percentage of primary infections will lead to exanthem subitum.
Like other herpesviruses, HHV-6 and HHV-7 can be reactivated at any time if host defence mechanisms become defective (e.g.
in transplant recipients, AIDS, tumour patients).
HHV-6 can be reactivated under such conditions and cause a variety of clinical problems, such as exanthems along with interstitial pneumonia or hepatitis for example.
In addition, the reactivated virus may influence the course of autoimmune and proliferative diseases such as systemic lupus erythematosus and Hodgkin's disease.
While, HHV-7 may be associated with similar disorders, more systematic studies are needed to clarify the clinical implications and the pathogenetic mechanisms of both viruses.
Pulmonary artery catheterization (PAC) is widely used for monitoring and optimization of hemodynamic therapy in critically ill patients.
Despite its widespread use there is no clear evidence that morbidity and mortality can be reduced by this approach.
In contrast, it has been suggested that PAC might increase mortality.
Available data do not allow the definitive omission of PAC in medical intensive care, nor do they justify its widespread use.
Possible reasons that might affect outcome are catheter-related complications and often misinterpretation due to insufficient knowledge about PAC.
Open questions on the influence of PAC on outcome variables in critically ill patients have to be answered by conducting randomized controlled trials.
Beforehand, knowledge about PAC has to be improved.
As a consequence, PAC should be performed whenever a specific hemodynamic question arises that cannot be answered by clinical judgement or by less invasive means.
It is important that the investigator be experienced in catheter placement and data interpretation to avoid harm to these critically ill patients.
A long-term goal of assisted reproduction techniques should be the development of methods which are able to replace the high-dose stimulation with gonadotropins in order to limit the costs and risks of in vitro fertilization treatment.
The in vitro maturation of immature oocytes derived from follicular aspirates and the in vitro growth of early follicles isolated from ovary biopsies are discussed as possible alternatives.
Both methods are able to shift the application of stimulating hormones from the in vivo to an in vitro level, but are today still far away from being established in clinical routine.
The exact knowledge of the topographic anatomy of the urethra as well as the macro- and microcirculation of the penis [6] are the basics of reconstructive urethral surgery.
Adherence to the fundamentals and principles of tissue transfer [5] are necessary to fascilitate conditions for successful treatment of the various disorders of the male urethra.
Mutural description of the anatomy of the male urethra in conjunction with external male genitals is necessary because of developmental similarities as well as the close anatomical relationship.
The arterial and venous blood supply of the urethra and the penis have to be taken into account if vascularized flaps from the penile skin or the prepuce are used in urethral reconstruction.
The dual arterial and venous vascularity of the genital skin is of fundamental importance to a successful outcome of the operative treatment.
The purpose of this article is, to summarize the relevant anatomical knowledge of reconstructive urethral surgery.
In this study the course of osteochondritis dissecans at two often affected areas, the femoral condyles of the knee joint and the talus at the upper ankle joint, is evaluated by studying and comparing the medium-term outcome in 40 patients treated conservatively and 72 patients treated surgically by arthroscopy.
The criterion of assessment was magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), which shows a close correlation to the arthroscopic stages of osteochondritis.
The stages on MRI follow the morphology of the interface, i.e., the zone between the osteochondral fragment and the parent bone, on T1- and T2-weighted images.
After 18 and 24 months there were no substantial differences visible on MRI between the two different treatment groups.
In fact, in the majority of cases  (> 60%) the MRI result was the same in spite of the treatment that had been carried out.
Arthroscopic treatment compared to conservative treatment resulted in a small percentage in a reintegration in the sense of upgrading on the MRI (36% to 30%); nevertheless, a disintegration could not be avoided in all cases (4%).
In both treatment groups the age of the patient seems to play an important role in the course of osteochondritis, juvenile forms following a milder course than adult forms.
The number of women with congenital cardiac disease, who mature into adulthood is increasing.
Unfortunately, there are no prospective data published about the relative risk of different forms of contraception for these patients.
Most women with congenital cardiac disease can safely use oral contracetives, especially low-estrogen combination or progestin-only preparations, with the exception of those, who are at particular risk because of thrombembolic complications (especially in cyanosis, pulmonary hypertension, Eisenmenger reaction, rhythm disturbances), fluid retention (especially in reduced ventricular function and congestive heart failure), arterial hypertension (important in coarctation), infectious complications (endocarditis) or hyperlipidemia.
Oral contraceptives should be avoided in patients at increased risk for thrombembolic events.
Intrauterine devices are very effective, have no metabolic side effects and merely cary a small risk of endocarditis.
Newer devices containing progesterone only may put the patients at a still smaller risk.
Contraceptive subdermal implants (e.g.
levonorgestrel) are used with good results in the United States for patients with contraindications to estrogen-containing oral contraceptives and may well become more widely accepted in patients in Germany in the coming years.
Barrier methods can be used, but have a higher failure rate, which may be inacceptable in patients at risk (e.g.
Especially in Eisenmenger's, permanent sterilisation should be advised.
Two groups of 15 patients each with disseminated intravascular coagulation in association with septic disease were treated with low-molecular-weight heparin  (lmw-heparin) in different dosages (group I: 1,5-5 IE/kg body weight (BW) per hour; group II: 8-15 IE/kg BW).
We studied the levels of D-dimer, thrombin-antithrombin III complex (TAT), prothrombin fragments 1 and 2 (PTF), and global tests of coagulation like prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (PTT), thrombin time (TT) and platelet count, plasminogen activation (PA) and fibrinogen concentration to estimate the success of heparin therapy in the two groups.
TT and fibrinogen concentration were not suitable to follow the course of the coagulation disorder.
PT, PTT, platelet count progressively PA, D-dimer, TAT, and PTF normalised progressively after heparinisation.
However, only the last three parameters were sensitive enough to show different effects of variable dosages of lmw-heparin.
D-dimer, TAT, and PTF levels declined in proportion with heparin concentrations, and thus appear to be the most useful parameters for monitoring the therapeutic effect of heparin in septic coagulopathies.
In patients with acute or chronic myocarditis, arrhythmias are a common and often the only clinical symptom in the natural course of the disease.
The potentially malignant tachy- and bradyarrhythmias are of particular significance in the differential diagnosis of sudden cardiac death in myocarditis.
Factors responsible for the increased incidence of cardiac arrhythmias are structural changes, parameters of ventricular dynamics and vascular changes.
On the one hand, inflammatory processes in the cardiac myocytes and interstitium can lead directly to fluctuations in membrane potential.
Fibrosis and scarring of the myocardial tissue and secondary hypertrophy and atrophy of the myocytes favor the development of ectopic pacemakers, late potentials and reentry as a result of inhomogeneous stimulus conduction.
Furthermore, parameters of ventricular dynamics such as increased wall tension, increased myocardial oxygen consumption and diminished coronary reserve in the case of disturbed systolic or diastolic left ventricular function also contribute to the increased incidence of arrhythmias.
Lastly, vascular factors can further increase the arrhythmogenicity of the inflamed myocardium through the disturbance of micro- and macrovascular perfusion and the resulting myocardial ischemia.
Non-invasive rhythmological evaluation by 24 h Holter ECG, measurement of ventricular late potentials and heart rate variability can be used for orienting risk stratification of the at-risk patient with myocarditis.
Programmed atrial and ventricular electrophysiological stimulation also has a relatively high predictive value for spontaneous ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
It should be emphasized that, at the present time, optimal electrophysiological parameters with a high predictive value do not exist.
In a selected patient population, immunosuppressive therapy in addition to conventional antiarrhythmic therapy can lead to the reduction or complete suppression of spontaneous and inducible arrhythmias.
Nevertheless, in the interim, further precautionary antiarrhythmic measures such as serial antiarrhythmic treatment, VT ablation and AICD implantation are necessary in patients with malignant cardiac arrhythmias.
Right ventricular myocardial biopsy for demonstration or exclusion of myocarditis is an important additional examination which can improve the differential diagnosis and treatment of patients with cardiac arrhythmias of unclear etiology.
Aim: To investigate the distribution of collagens in experimental microvascular surgery.
Material and methods: Autografts (4 mm) of the left common carotid artery in 20 Wistar rats were harvested up to 4 weeks after surgery.
The specimens were investigated immunohistochemically for the demonstration and distribution of collagen III and IV.
Results: The demonstration and distribution pattern of collagens was a function of the accuracy of each single suture.
In the intima, the organisation and amount of collagen IV was directed to the lumen and dependent on the distance and vitality of the vessel segments.
The media had in its axis direction the lowest reparative potential for regenerating the continuity break.
The adventitia formed a thick cuff around the anastomosis, in which collagen III and IV-positive vasa vasorum had grown in a circular fashion.
The marked myointimal hyperplasia in the area around the anastomosis and in the entire autograft was made up of collagen-positive extracellular matrix.
Conclusions: Our results support the demand for a careful and atraumatic suture technique in microvascular surgery.
The identification of collagens in rat vessels is a valuable tool for studying wound healing in experimental microsurgery.
We treated 8123 patients with invasive malignant melanoma were treated up to 1995.
2200 had invasive melanomas with less than 0.75 mm Breslow thickness; of these, 45 developed metastases.
Three had second primary tumors with greater thickness.
One case showed metastasis from another tumor.
In two cases the metastases were not ascertained histologically.
The remaining 39 cases showed some peculiarities: a greater proportion of late and of internal (as contrasted to regional) metastases.
Most of these primary tumors had a Breslow thickness of more than 0.5 mm and were Clark level III or even IV.
Male patients and primary tumor sites in the area of head and neck were significantly over-represented.
In this paper the question is considered to what extent the patient's and analyst's perception and tolerance of both aggressive and destructive elements of the analytic relationship can be increased.
Successful interpretation enables the patient to feel, enact and comprehend animosity in the transference and experience that the relationship can continue.
The concept of primary aggression developed in Freud's speculation on death instinct is discussed in its clinical function of relief.
The metapsychological concept of primary aggression facilitates work on aggressive and especially destructive developments of the relationship.
Freud's and subsequently Eissler's examination of the reciprocity of destructiveness and narcissism opened plausible clinical avenues to explain the compensation of defence mechanisms against mankind's vulnerability in the face of mortality.
The concept of primary aggression is obviously of greater relevance than frustration/aggression models since the former does not view the patient as mere victim of his biography, but as a subject with the potential to enact his own destructiveness.
Since aggressiveness is often concomitant with fear and suppressed guilt, interpretation plays a decisive role in relieving the superego strain; more confrontation may involve the analyst in the role of the persecutor.
Sudden and violent feelings of hate towards the analyst require careful treatment of the patient's irritation.
Interpretation of genetic causes of animosity often prove to be countertransference resistance; interpretation in transference, however, is viewed as profitable.
Finally, those dangerous and destructive phases of treatments are discussed, which compel the analyst to protect the setting.
Background: Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is the most common viral agent of severe lower respiratory tract disease in infants and children throughout the world.
Highest hospitalization rates are seen in the second and third month of life.
Young infants, especially those with predisposing conditions such as prematurity, bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), chronic lung disease (CLD), congenital heart disease, cystic fibrosis or immunodeficiency, are the pediatric patients at increased risk for severe RSV disease.
Specific therapeutic options for RSV are limited.
In this prospective study we investigated the efficacy of microcatheter spinal anaesthesia in comparison with a combined spinal-epidural technique in trauma patients.
Background: In Denmark, France, Germany, Great Britain and Italy, the OPHTEL project combines clinical centers of ophthalmology and internal medicine, an institute for medical informatics and health services research, a publishing company and different industrial partners in the EDP market.
Purpose: A prospective study was initiated for the correlation of the findings in the initial cranial CT with the long-term follow-up MRI in children with severe head injury.
Another aim was the evaluation of frequency and location of lesions, found only in MRI.
A differentiation is made between patient information on findings and diagnosis, patient information on avoidance of known dangers, and patient information on the risks involved in a particular intervention that has been selected.
If no information is given on the risks inherent in a patient's condition and how she must proceed in order to ensure that they do not come about, this is considered to be a treatment error, and in these circumstances the intervention is then legally seen as bodily harm.
Information on the risks involved in an intervention must be given in good time, which generally means on the day before the operation.
An exception is made to this rule for day surgery.
The patient must be informed about treatment alternatives when the method selected is not the method of choice or when there is an alternative offering equivalent chances but risks of a different kind.
Such information is given to the adult patient who is capable of legal transactions.
In the case of minors or of patients who are not capable of legal transactions their legal representative is responsible for receiving the information [and making decisions].
In the case of unconscious patients everything depends on "presumable consent to the operation".
If a patient later cites lacks in the information supplied to her to support a claim for compensation in a situation where it would be unwise to refuse an operation, she must elaborate plausible grounds for being in conflict over the decision even following appropriate information.
Within the last few years the use of Point-of-Care Analyzers increased.
These testing is primarily performed in the emergency room, intensive care units, and in the operating room using small portable analyzers.
The fact of being transportable and working with rechargeable or changable batteries and disposable cartridges caused us to use blood gas analysis in the prehospital setting.
Patients undergoing major vascular surgery frequently require a substantial intraoperative fluid replacement to assure hemodynamic stability, which is in excess of the expected fluid requirements due to starving, blood and insensible losses.
This leads to a positive fluid balance which can not be readily explained.
The case of a 57 year old patient is reported, who suffered from an acute myocardial infarction with maximum CK and CKMB values of 821 and 84 U/l, respectively.
The patient underwent bicycle exercise testing 9 days after a myocardial infarction in 25 W steps every 2 min starting with 50 W. The ergometry was interrupted at 125 W because of ST segment depression of 0.28 mV in V6.
Systolic blood pressure dropped to 55 mm Hg, combined with severe angina and shock.
Volume substitution and catecholamines did not elevate blood pressure.
Immediate M-mode and Doppler echo revealed a "stiletto"-shaped mitral regurgitation profile typical of acute mitral valve insufficiency.
The transesophageal echocardiogram showed a distinct mass moving between the left ventricle and left atrium, diagnostic of papillary muscle rupture.
Despite of shock, mitral valve replacement was performed successfully.
To our knowledge, this is the first report of a papillary muscle rupture during exercise testing after myocardial infarction.
The flow directed balloon-tipped pulmonary artery catheter introduced by Swann and Ganz 1970 has made possible the measurement of filling pressures in the heart and is extensively used in operating rooms, in catheterization laboratories and in intensive care units.
The rupture of the pulmonary artery is an uncommon complication associated with a high mortality rate exceeding 50 percent.
Main symptoms are cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea and cardiac shock.
Complications occur if guidelines for the safe use of the balloon-tipped catheters are not strictly followed: Excessive catheter manipulation, advancing the catheter tip too far peripherally and leaving the inflated balloon in the wedge position for long periods should be avoided.
Patients with pulmonary hypertension as well as elderly and anticoagulated patients are at greater risk.
On 90 patients with 93 unstable fractures of the thoracic spine and the thoracolumbar junction we treated by a minimal invasive procedure between may 1996 and april 1998, in 46 patients an endoscopic splitting of the diaphragm was performed.
The diaphragma was dissected at its attachment at the spine and the adjoining costal base.
After partial corporectomy and discectomy, a tricortical bone graft has been inserted.
An additional stabilization was done by using a plate and screw system.
The incision of the diaphragm was closed by suturing or using an universal endostapler.
Controlling the postoperative results a complete closure of the incision was documented by X-ray and CT-scan.
There was no conversion to the open procedure or postoperative infection.
Splitting the diaphragma opens also the thoracolumbar junction to a minimal invasive treatment and stabilization of fractures.
This is a report of an interdisciplinary approach to diagnosis and treatment of stroke, combining a stroke unit and rehabilitation in one clinic.
This series contains unselected patients from a narrow surrounding.
Mean age of 559 patients was 68.7 years (median 70 years).
25% of patients had an initial Barthel index of <30, 20% presented with TIA's and PRIND's.
9% suffered from cerebral hemorrhage.
The unbroken chain of care allowed a relative short length of stay in the acute care (9.4 days) without prolonging the rehabilitation phase.
The one month mortality was 6.7%, one year mortality 18.3%.
Discharge to a nursing home was necessary in 5.4%.
Overall more than 90% of our patients have been treated continuously in our clinic.
Combining modern diagnostics with early onset rehabilitation seem advantageous.
About 220 knee endoprostheses are implanted at our clinic annually.
This is a routine procedure for the instrument staff.
Practice has shown, however, that deficient operating room management as regards the instruments, implants, operating room staff, and surgical planning causes problems.
As a result of this, a prophylactic search for sources of error began (risk management).
If the sources of error are found, described, and remedied, knee endoprosthetic surgery will be successful for both the patient and the surgical team.
Cooperation and communication among manufacturer, surgeon, and surgical nursing staff should serve to minimize forensic risks.
The obligate intracellular bacterium Chlamydia pneumoniae has been implicated in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis since viable pathogen has been recovered from plaques.
Chlamydiae are epithelial pathogens notorious for causing persistent infection.
Atherosclerosis, however, is a chronic inflammatory disease involving mesenchymal cells of the vascular wall.
A bacterial contribution to atherosclerosis appears more relevant if the resident mesenchymal cells of the vascular wall that constitute the plaque can support chlamydial infection continuously.
The study consists of a prospective randomized controlled clinical trial of patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy.
Besides medical and sociodemographic data, two personality factors - self-efficacy and locus of control - were found to predict postoperative pain.
Self-efficacy describes the expectations of a person to successfully execute the behavior required to produce behavioral outcomes.
Locus of control, in the extreme case, is a personality factor which is represented by an internal orientation in which the individual believes that rewards are brought about by his own action, versus an external orientation, in which the individual believes that rewards are the result of powerful others or chance factors and fate.
We postulate that the two personality factors correlate with postoperative parameters of pain and that there are also multiple correlations between them.
At present there is neither an completely inert biomaterial available, nor does a universal test exist which objectively evaluates biocompatibility.
One reason is the individuality of the host, especially with regard to the inflammatory response.
Inflammation was found to induce biodegradation by hydrolysis or auto-oxidation of vascular prosthetic matrix after implantation.
The present study was performed to investigate the specific humoral immune response after implantation of segments of a collagen-impregnated polyester prosthesis (Dacron) in Balb/c mice on experimental days 1, 18, 38, and 322.
Serum antibody detection was performed by modified enzyme immunoassay using the prosthesis as a target.
Specific polymer antibodies, enhanced by repeated implantations, could be detected in all mice which received grafts up to experimental day 322.
These antibodies were not directed against the collagen coating.
The antibody formation could be further enhanced by a combined administration of complete Freund's adjuvant together with the first implantation at experimental day 1.
Results suggest that specific polymer antibodies, reflecting an inflammatory response, might be an additional parameter for biocompatibility testing of vascular prostheses.
Twenty-nine unicondylar fractures of the distal femur were treated at the Trauma Center "Bergmannsheil", University of Bochum, Germany, between 1981 and 1994.
All patients sustained their injuries from severe direct trauma.
There were 16 lateral condylar fractures, 7 medial condylar fractures and 6 tangential posterior ("Hoffa-type") fractures.
Twenty-eight closed injuries and 1 grade IIIB open fracture were included.
Eleven patients sustained concomitant injuries to the skeleton.
All fractures were treated with open reduction and internal fixation with screws within 8 h of admission.
Postoperative management consisted of early continuous passive motion and minimal weight-bearing for 6-8 weeks, progressing to full weight-bearing.
The mean follow-up was 68 months (18-120).
The therapeutic outcome (clinical result, radiographs) was rated by the Neer score.
Twenty-seven patients were available for follow-up examination.
Of these, 23 were rated as excellent.
3 achieved satisfactory results, and 1 had an unsatisfactory result.
All patients who did not achieve an excellent outcome had had accompanying injuries.
Open reduction and internal screw fixation of unicondylar femur fractures provided overall excellent long-term results.
The therapeutic outcome was significantly affected by associated injuries of the skeleton.
The realization that a disease will not respond to a curative treatment causes massive fear and anxiety in affected patients, but also feelings of helplessness and insecurity in health professionals caring for the patients.
The global fears of affected patients can be divided into three main categories of problems; stepwise mastering of these problems may help to maintain or restore an acceptably high quality of life according to the WHO guidelines for palliative medicine.
In light of the anxiety felt by physicians and others caring for this patient group, palliative psycho-oncology must offer patient-centered holistic care in which the psycho-oncologist is not an isolated therapist but rather a member of a team made up of physicians, nurses, religious workers, psychologists, ergotherpists, physiotherapists, social workers, and especially family members.
Together, this group of health professionals and family members caring for the affected patient form a group that itself receives care as needed.
Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS) with hepatic vein occlusion is a rare disorder that can effectively be treated in advanced stages with orthotopic liver transplantation.
We report on 16 patients who received 18 liver grafts and were followed up for at least 2 years.
In 7 patients a hematological disorder was confirmed by bone marrow biopsy.
One patient died after 4 months due to cytomegalovirus pneumonia; another patient died after 2 years due to progressive liver failure after portal vein thrombosis.
The actuarial 5-year survival rate is 87.5 % compared to 85.3 % in all other 710 orthotopic liver transplantations performed from September 1988 to December 1995 at our institution.
Anticoagulation consisted of intravenous heparin and overlapping continuation with dicoumarin.
Three patients received hydroxyurea for thrombocytosis, one patient for 1 week only early after the transplantation.
Two postoperative abdominal hemorrhages required laparotomy.
Two patients had to be retransplanted, one for thrombosis of the hepatic artery and portal vein after discontinuation of dicoumarin due to GI bleeding and one for hepatic vein thrombosis after insufficient dicoumarin intake.
Terminal BCS represents a good indication for orthotopic liver transplantation; however, life-long, closely monitored anticoagulation is essential.
Postmenopausal estrogen-replacement therapy maintains bone density as assessed by densitometry of skeletal sites relevant for future fracture.
Optimal doses are 2 mg oral estradiol, 0.625 mg conjugated equine estrogens, 1.25 mg estrone and 50 µg transdermal estradiol.
There is a role for calcium supplementation in individuals with non-optimal dietary intake of calcium.
Observational studies suggest that estrogen replacement reduces the future risk for hip fracture by 25 %.
Discontinuation of replacements is associated with an increase of fracture risk few years later.
It is noteworthy that there is a lack of formal fracture studies providing data on the efficacy of estrogen replacement for primary prevention of osteoporosis and for secondary prevention in terms of treatment of women with established osteoporosis, with a diagnosis based on WHO criteria.
Raloxifene, a selective estrogen receptor modulator, and tibolone, a synthetic steroid with weak estrogenic, progestogenic and androgenic properties, may constitute alternatives to estrogen-replacement therapy.
Raloxifenen maintains bone density in and reduces vetebral fractures by some 50 % in women with prevalent osteoporosis.
Artificial insemination from donor (heterologous insemination) is a rationally based treatment in complete male infertility.
In this overview the enlarged knowledge on semen donors, the receiving couples and the development of the offspring will be summarized.
Although motivation of men towards semen donation is predominantly based on financial expectancy, most of the donors agree to offer the offspring not-identifiable information on biological and social characteristics.
Semen donation does not enhance the risk of consanguinity and of genetic diseases in the population.
The decision to undergo heterologous insemination is a burden for the couples.
Retrospectively, however, the majority state positive influences of the insemination on their partnership.
The most important question is whether they should disclose the insemination to the children.
The course of the pregnancy and the postnatal development of the children do not differ from those of children of natural procreation.
They receive more love and care than "usual" children.
Their rights concerning the insemination, however, are poorly considered.
If we agree that the knowledge of genetic descent is part of human rights, non-disclosure of the donor insemination to the children raises severe ethical problems.
The extended field of view imaging procedure named "SieScape" provides, for the first time, a mode of establishing in real time a sonographic picture up to 60 cm in length.
This allows the display of large organs or tumors as well as large areas of the body in a single view, without having to assemble several pictures.
Furthermore, pathological find-ings can be shown in full size in their surroundings.
This method makes it considerably easier to convey sonographic results to the therapist who is not present at the investigation and to control a finding, for instance a tumor, during therapy.
Heart rate variability (HrV) has been established as an important risk parameter in patients surviving myocardial infaction.
Recently, analysis of HRV - particularly of the standard deviation of NN intervals (SDNN) - from short term ECG recordings has been proposed as an alternative to that from 24 hour Holter monitorings.
The present study is the first to compare SDNN from short term recordings to that from 24 hour recordings with respect to risk stratification after myocardial infarction.
In 60 patients at the time of discharge from the hospital, SDNN from Holter monitoring averaged 93  +/-  30 ms compared to 39  +/-  18 determined from short term recordings.
Patients with a prospectively defined clinical endpoint differed significantly from those with an uneventful course with respect to age, left ventricular ejection fraction, mean RR interval from Holter recording ( 753  +/-  153 vs 921  +/-  132 ms), mean RR from short term recording (783  +/-  153 vs 914  +/-  163 ms), and SDNN from the Holter recording (71  +/-  27 vs 97  +/-  29 ms; p < 0.001) However, patients with and without clinical event could not be seperated by means of SDNN measured from short term ECG registrations (35  +/-  22 vs 41  +/-  19 ms; P = NS).
Thus, SDNN measured from short term ECG recordings does not seem to be useful regarding risk stratification of patients after myocardial infarction.
Analysis of HRV should be performed using 24 hour Holter monitoring, which provides more information and reflects circadian fluctuation in autonomic tone.
Glomus tumors (glomangiomata) are benign tumors arising from glomus cells.
Multiple glomangiomata are less frequent and less painful than the solitary variant, which is usually located subungually.
Nonetheless multiple glomangiomata - sometimes being sensitive to pressure and changes in temperature - may cause considerable discomfort.
Treatment of multiple glomangiomata is problematic because of the often large number of tumors.
Sclerotherapy represents an alternative to surgical and cryosurgical therapy.
We report on sclerotherapy in a 35 year old female patient with multiple hereditary glomus tumors.
Conventional echocardiographic methods of measuring left ventricular mass (LVM) are limited by assumptions of ventricular geometry and image plane positioning.
Three-dimensional (3D) echocardiography offers a promising new approach for more accurate determination of LVM.
This study was performed to compare LVM measurement by one- (1D), two- (2D), and 3D echocardiography with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients (pts) with dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM).
Determination of Functional Residual Capacity (FRC) can be performed through washout methods, indicator gas dilution or bodyplethysmography.
Some of these techniques have been adapted for use in intensive care patients whilst being mechanically ventilated.
However, most measurement setups are bulky, cumbersome to use and their running costs are high.
Hence FRC measurement has not become a routine method in intensive care although it offers considerable advantages in the management of ventilated  patients such as the determination of "best PEEP", the detection of progressive alveolar collapse in the course of acute lung injury and during weaning from mechanical ventilation.
Up to now most efforts to improve and simplify FRC measurement were made at the expense of accuracy.
An ideal method ought to be accurate, easy to handle and cost-effective.
It should supply not only FRC data but also information about intrapulmonary gas distribution and dead space.
These demands can be met using modern data acquisition software.
The pros and cons of all methods available for FRC measurement are discussed in view of their suitability for intensive care patients.
A conventional nitrogen washout using emission spectroscopy for measurement of nitrogen concentration gives satisfying exact values for the determination  of the parameters mentioned above.
The measurement error can be lowered under 5% by special corrections for flow and  nitrogen signal (delay and rise times, changes of gas viscosity).
For flow measurement a normal pneumotachograph can be used.
Using a laptop computer for data  acquisition the bed-side monitor fulfills most of the demands in intensive care.
It is then also possible to measure indices of intrapulmonary gas distribution such as Alveolar Mixing Efficiency and Lung Clearance Index.
Three strategies are followed in handling the key issue within the field of action of care and services for the elderly: securing the material needs of those requiring care, creating appropriate care structures, and providing an effective counselling back-up to alleviate interface problems.
Thouse latter, process-oriented aids, have been the subject of discussion and further development under the key term of case management for a good decade.
The aim in this context is to prevent the elderly from being unnecessarily moved into residential care, to stop the revolving door syndrome, to ensure that older people can stay in their homes, to support family members acting as care providers, to enhance the quality of services and those to ease the strain on fund providers.
In the context of case managment, these diverse tasks are performed by three basic substantive functions: the gatekeeper, broker, and advocacy functions.
Each of these three functions characterizes the main variants of case management with a different weighting (care management, community care, managed care and case management as a counselling approach with a particular focus on individual help).
Bullous pemphigoid (BP) is a bullous autoimmune disease of the elderly; it is characterized by tense bullae on both erythematous and otherwise apparently normal skin.
Several clinical variants of BP have been described, and we now add our observations of two BP cases mimicking subacute prurigo.
Both patients had suffered from intensely pruritic excoriated papules for several months before presentation.
Blisters had never developed and did not occur during follow up.
Histology showed changes of chronic dermatitis.
In the serum of both patients, indirect immunofluorescence on NaCl-separated human skin revealed the presence of circulating antibodies binding to the roof of the artificial blisters.
Perilesional skin biopsies showed linear IgG or C3 deposits in the basement membran zone.
Immunoblotting of epidermal and dermal extracts demonstrated the binding of the antibodies to an epidermal 230-kD protein, which is the known major bullous pemphigoid antigen.
These cases are described as a basis for discussion of the clinical spectrum of bullous pemphigoid.
The distal metatarsal osteotomy according to Magerl allows correction of a hallux valgus deformity by lateral and plantar displacement as well as by pronation and varisation.
The length of the first metatarsal can be adjusted by the depth of the cut at the resection or by a slightly oblique osteotomy.
If necessary, soft tissue release and/or a osteotomy of the first proximal phalanx can be done to relocate the sesamoids under the head of the first metatarsal.
A review of 118 foot operations in 75 patients demonstrated a very good or good result in about 75 %.
Radiological examination showed sufficient lateralisation of the metatarsal head.
Evaluating the length of the first metatarsal and the amount of variation, the results were less satisfying.
The metatarsophalangeal angles could be corrected by 14  ° and the intermetatarsal angles by 7  ° on average.
The sophisticated operative procedure limits the use of this technique as a standard procedure.
The contribution of Rudolf Virchow to dermatology seems to have been forgotten, or present-day dermatologists are not aware of it.
The present historical review is intended to show that Virchow's thoughts and the terminology created by him are still alive.
The report encompasses a short biography, including Virchow's nonmedical activities.
It starts with early experimental publications, which laid to the foundation for his fame, and with dermatological studies of his early period.
This is followed by a detailed description of his contributions pertaining to dermatology in his largest work, "Cellularpathologie".
Special mention is made of Virchow's lasting contributions to medical, and particularly dermatological, terminology.
Finally, his historical studies, his latter small publications on topics in dermatology, his pupils and scientific friends, and the social-political and anthropological activities of later years are discussed.
Thus, a multifaceted picture is painted of a still modern pathologist who has influenced dermatology in multiple ways.
Starter's pistols are often bought for self-defense, but can also be used for criminal activities (e.g.
assaults, etc.).
When a starter's pistol is loaded with blank cartridges and is fired, a powerful shooting noise results.
The level of the noise produced is high enough to cause acoustic trauma.
For legal examinations and giving an expert opinion further information is needed about the power of such noise.
We examined how high peak sound pressure levels were of the gunshots of blank cartridges and whether there existed any directional characteristics from the noise emissions.
In all, 15 different models of starter's pistols of 8 different calibres were examined.
In addition to blank cartridges, 8 mm tear gas cartridges were also examined.
Four transducers were situated in the horizontal plane around the muzzle: 0 ° (shooting direction), 45 °, 90 °, and 180 ° (towards the firer).
The distances between the transducers and the muzzle were 25 cm, 50 cm, 100 cm, and 200 cm.
At a distance of 1 m and in the 0 ° shooting direction the peak sound pressure levels of nearly all weapons tested exceeded 160 dB.
At a shooting distance of 25 cm the peak sound pressure levels reached 181 dB.
In addition, we observed a directional characteristic concerning the emission of noise: pistols produced higher peak sound pressure levels to the front than backwards towards the firer.
Owing to their rare incidence, foreign body injuries in the region of the orbit, skull base and skull have up to now mostly been treated in  the literature by means of case reports.
Here we present our experience and treatment regimen for ten patients we have treated during the last 3 years.
In seven cases the foreign body was located in the orbit alone, whereas in three others the orbit and the frontal base were equally involved.
Except for one case, the foreign material could be removed completely.
Three patients suffered from partial or complete loss of vision and one patient developed a psychosyndrome during the follow-up period, but no late effects were registered in the remaining six cases.
Before removing the foreign body and carefully reconstructing the accident, however, we strongly recommend the documentation of possible functional deficits, preferably by means of photography.
CT is the method of choice for localising the foreign body, except for the depiction of wood particles.
Here, sonography and MR should be performed.
As the therapeutic approach, the cooperation of an interdisciplinary team of ophthalmogists, neuro- and maxillofacial surgeons seems mandatory.
To avoid inflammation, the immediate removal of the foreign material is recommended in cases with considerable intracranial lesions: post-operative neurologic and intensive care monitoring should be provided.
Treatment is completed by high-dose antibiotics, using CSF-soluble substances and, if necessary, anti-convulsives.
Rocuronium is a new nondepolarizing muscle relaxant for which a fast onset has been described.
The goal of this study was to examine whether the characteristics of rocuronium could make it an appropriate relaxant for the anaesthetic management of operations of intermediate duration such as endoscopic upper airway surgery.
These operations, which require the anaesthesiologist and surgeon to "share" the patient's airway, require good muscle relaxation for endotracheal intubation and placement of endoscopic instruments.
In addition, the time course of neuromuscular blockade and its relation to the quality of intubating conditions were analysed.
Patients and methods: In order to better define the potential advantages and risks of laser in situ keratomileusis (LASIK), we designed a prospective study including 73 eyes.
Treatment of tachycardic atrial fibrillation (AF) is difficult in patients with congestive heart failure because many drugs which exert negative dromotropic effects (beta-blockers, calcium channel antagonists) may depress ventricular contractility and/or decrease arterial blood pressure.
We have identified 2 intravascular sites in the superior (SVC) and inferior vena cava (IVC) where parasympathetic nerves, which innervate the atrioventricular node, can be stimulated electrically.
In 8 dogs, a 7-F catheter with an expandable electrode basket at its tip was non-fluoroscopically positioned in the SVC and in the proximal IVC (time for positioning: 3-5 minutes).
High-frequency electrical parasympathetic stimulation (PS) with 20 Hz at an impulse duration of 0.1 ms was performed during pacing induced AF.
Results: With increasing stimulus strength, a graded ventricular rate slowing was observed during PS in the SVC and IVC (P<0.01, ANOVA).
The negative dromotropic effect started instantaneously after onset of PS and ceased immediately after termination of PS.
During ventricular pacing at a constant rate, no decrease of the arterial blood pressure was observed during PS.
PS in the IVC yielded significantly lower stimulation thresholds than in the SVC.
Conclusions: Transvenous parasympathetic stimulation for ventricular rate control during AF can easily be achieved in the SVC and IVC in dogs.
This procedure may provide a foundation for investigating the usefulness of PS in humans.
If the results translate to patients, PS may be very beneficial in the treatment of AF in patients with congestive heart failure.
A total of 86 patients suffering from fractures of the thoracolumbar spine were followed up after an average time period of 57 months (12-98).
Of these patients, 56 were treated operatively and 30 conservatively.
According to the AO/ASIF classification, 66% of the operated group were fractures of type A, 29% of type B, and 5% of type C. All patients were operated on by means of dorsal locking instrumentation with pedicular fixation and, apart from six patients, with transpedicular cancellous bone grafting.
The conservative group was treated according to the guidelines of Böhler with closed reduction, plaster cast, and rehabilitation program.
All fractures in the conservative group were of type A.
Charcot foot in its original sense is equivalent to stage 4 of hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN) which is known as Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease since 1886.
This entity, which can be subdivided into 3 groups including subgroups, predominantly begins during childhood and progresses slowly.
The first symptom, often unnoticed by the patient for a long period, is weakness of the intrinsic foot muscles with consecutive hammer-toe formation and mobile pes cavus.
Progredient atrophy of the peroneal, extensor, tibialis posterior and finally triceps surae muscles leads to fixed pes cavus varus excavatus with severe varus deformity of the hindfoot, secondary varus position of the talus at the ankle level and subsequent arthrosis of the medial compartment.
Permanent varus deformity of the ankle almost invariably leads to stress fractures of the malleoli because of repetitive microtrauma (stage 5 of HMSN).
The alveolar adenoma of the lung is a rare benign tumor in which the normal parenchymal architectur is imitated by a proliferation of both the alveolar epithelial cells and the mesenchymal septal cells.
The first description, based on six cases, was published in 1986 by Yousem and Hochholzer.
From their ultrastructural findings they presumed a type II pneumocytes differentiation of the epithelial cells.
We investigated an alveolar adenoma of the lung immunhistochemical by means of antibodies against apoprotein B and C of human surfactant.
Both the lining cells and the macrophages in the alveolar-like spaces were stained.
The septal connection tissue cells did not react.
These findings confirm the expression of surfactant constituants and, hence, the differentiation into type II pneumocytes of the epithelial cells of the alveolar adenoma.
Breast cancer is the most frequent malignant tumor in women, whereas it is rare in men.
In our own case series the ratio is 175 : 1.
The present paper deals with an evaluation of clinical and morphological findings from a series of 54 de novo male breast cancers observed in our institution from 1978 to 1996 and a comparative discussion of 528 female breast cancers from the same geographic area.
We should like to focus on the following observations:
Patients with congenital varicella syndrome develop cicatricial skin lesions and microphthalmia.
An overlap in the clinical manifestations exist with a specific genetic disorder, called MIDAS syndrome.
It is due to a partial deletion of the short arm from chromosome X, with consecutive monosomy Xp22.3.
The rapid development of recombinant DNA technology and our enhanced understanding of the genetic basis of human disease has facilitated the development of new molecular therapeutic modalities, termed gene therapy.
Gene therapy involves the transfer of functional genes into somatic cells and their expression in target tissues in order to replace absent genes, correct defective genes, or induce antitumoral activity in the tumor-bearing host.
Currently, an increasing number of gene therapy strategies are being investigated in experimental and clinical trials.
Despite substantial progress, a number of technical and logistical hurdles must still be overcome before gene therapy can be safely and effectively applied in the human patient.
Since gene therapy involves complex cell processing and can be time consuming and costly, simplifications or even alternative approaches will be necessary in order to establish this therapy as suitable for clinical use.
This report reviews various gene therapy stategies and gene delivery techniques currently under clinical or experimental investigation.
Special emphasis is given to cytokine gene therapy using gene-modified tumor vaccines for cancer treatment.
Using the PTB simulator, which emits real signals from patients, we examined the precision of the oscillometric blood pressure measurement with the Dinamap 1846 (Critikon) and the HP M-1008B (Hewlett Packard).
For this purpose we simultaneously registered invasive arterial pulsewave, cuff pressure and cuff pressure oscillations of 20 patients from our intensive care unit and stored them in the database of the simulator.
The invasive reference blood pressure values were determined following the recommendations given by the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation.
The invasive system showed a cut-off frequency of 35 Hz; the damping constant was 0.21.
With 49 record signals from patients we carried out 15 simulated measurements each.
From a total of 49 bio-signals from patients the Dinamap 1846 was able to process 41 signals and the HP M-1008B 47 signals.
The mean error of the oscillometric blood pressure measurement of the systolic, diastolic and mean arterial pressure amounted to -2.50 mmHg, 3.35 mmHg (P<0.05) and 1.51 mmHg with the Dinamap 1846 and to -8.5 mmHg (P<0.001), -5.15 mmHg (P<0.001) and -5.58 mmHg (P<0.001) for the HP M-1008B.
The 95% confidence limit for the systolic, diastolic and the mean arterial pressure amounts to 56 mmHg, 30 mmHg and 35 mmHg for the Dinamap 1846 and 50 mmHg, 38 mmHg and 35 mmHg for the HP M-1008B.
The differences between that two instruments could be caused by the different algorithms for the calculation of blood pressure values and different artefact detection and elimination techniques.
The results of the performance tests we achieved with the PTB simulator correspond to the results of other clinical examinations.
The American Association for the Advanecement of Medical Instrumentation recommends a maximum mean error of 5 +/- 8 mmHg.
None of the examined instruments lay within these limits.
Due to the systematic and stochastic errors, we think that the Dinamap 1846 (Critikon) and the HP M-1008B (Hewlett Packard) do not achieve performance levels that are adequate for measuring critically ill patients.
Many patients consulting medical emergency services make the initial contact because of psychiatric emergency situations.
However, emergency physicians and their assistants are usually not sufficiently experienced in psychiatry.
Therefore, psychiatric emergencies are sometimes only reluctantly accepted or inadequately treated by these services.
Our present contribution aims at improving this situation.
It gives a review of the main diagnostic groups concerned, their symptomatology and psychopathology, and offers some advice with regard to empathic verbal interventions and counselling in those emergency situations.
3 different types of complex spinal trauma are defined: Type I means a multilevel contiguous or non contiguous unstable injury, type II is described as a spinal injury with concommitant thoracic or abdominal lesion, typ III stands for the coincidence of spinal injury and polytrauma.
Overlapping of different types occurs.
Type I: The incidence amounts according a german multicenter study to about 2,5 %.
Multilevel injuries need to be stabilized for a long distance from posterior.
With a thoroughful analysis the segments to be fused are determined.
Typ II: The leading thoracic injury is a lung contusion which occurs in up to 50 % of the cases.
A CT scan of the thorax during the first diagnostic screening is recommended.
Early reduction and stabilization from posterior should be aimed at.
During the first two weeks anterior procedures are contraindicated.
Abdominal injuries are to be found in 3-4 % of all spinal injuries.
All organs could be affected.
A typical constallation is the "seat-belt syndrome" with lesions of the upper abdominal organs and a flexiondistraction injury of the upper lumbar spine.
The main problem is to make the diagnosis of both components initially.
Most of the patients may be treated in one operation by first taking care of the abdominal injury and than stabilazing the spine.
The prognosis of this combination is favorable.
Typ III: In 17-18 % of all polytraumatized patients lesions of the spine are to be diagnosed.
From these only one third need surgical care.
From 680 patients with operatively treated fractures of the thoracolumbar junction 6,2 % were polytraumatized according to the multicenter study mentioned above.
The risk of missing a spinal injury in polytrauma totals approximately 20 %.
Surgical stabilization should be performed in the primary phase (day-1-surgery).
Additional injuries, potentially time consuming operations with a high blood loss sometimes necessitate a different approach.
Non stabilized spinal injuries apparently do not have the same negative effect on the whole organism as long bone fractures.
In the early phase of treatment on the C-spine only anterior procedures and on the thoraco-lumbar spine only posterior techniques should be applied.
Experimental studies have shown that in traffic accidents with frontal impact the new airbag system can significantly reduce the incidence of severe injuries and fatal outcome.
The question of whether the airbag itself induces specific patterns of injury needs further investigation.
Two cases of traffic accidents with airbag protection are presented here.
The first case report clearly shows the life-saving and injury-reducing effect of the airbag system in a traffic accident with frontal impact at 100 km/h.
In the second case only minor injuries of the face were diagnosed initially.
Hemodynamic instability occurred after 3 h of hospitalization due to rupture of the azygos vein.
Analysis of the presented cases shows that, besides the well-known benefits, there are certain injury patterns that seem to be related to the use of airbags.
These have not been described before.
It is concluded that patients who were involved in traffic accidents with airbag deployment have to be hospitalized and followed up carefully over time, even though they are initially stable, as potentially fatal sequelae of deceleration trauma can occur later.
In our opinion it is not possible to estimate the severity of airbag-associated injuries with conventional methods.
A questionnaire with 78 questions concerning the situation of ankylosing spondylitis (AS) sufferers in Germany was distributed to a representative 3000 out of the more than 14000 patient members of the German AS society; 1614 patients (54%) responded.
The age distribution of these patients roughly agrees with that expected due to the distribution of the age at diagnosis and the age distribution of the German population.
The group of patients more than 65 years old is, however, under-represented.
Introduction: Headache is thought to be generated by nociceptive processes within the meninges, followed by activation of trigeminal neurons within the brainstem.
The noxious stimuli initially involved in these nociceptive processes are unknown.
A preparation was developed in the barbiturate-anesthetized rat, in which the activation of trigeminal brain stem neurons by selective local stimulation of the dura mater could be observed.
Atherosclerosis is a complex multifactorial disease of the arterial wall, dependent on genetic disposition and multiple other risk factors.
There are probably several candidate genes, that determine the individual susceptibility of the vessel wall to develop atherosclerosis.
In recent years, a growing number of gene polymorphisms, associated with an elevated risk of myocardial infarction, has been identified.
These genes and gene clusters play a crucial role in lipid metabolism, regulation of blood pressure and clotting.
In contrast to rare monogenetic diseases with severe clinical signs and symptoms (e.g.
familial hypercholesterolemia), genetic polymorphisms are relatively frequent.
Due to their frequency, there is a high probability that one individual carries several alleles predisposing to coronary heart disease.
Genetic polymorphisms become clinically important by interacting with lifestyle, environmental factors or endogenous metabolic disorders.
Fourty-nine patients with 50 complex acetabular fractures were treated with open reduction and internal fixation from August 1993 to February 1996 in a prospectively documented study.
The fractures were fixed with small fragment implants through a modified extensile iliofemoral approach (Maryland approach).
Thirty-seven patients were polytraumatized with an ISS of 20 pts.
In 10 patients the ISS was > 25 pts.
Good or anatomic initial fracture reduction with a fragment stepoff K 2 mm could be achieved in 48 fracturers (96 %).
Thirty-six patients with 37 fractures could be evaluated after 25 months on average.
In 28 fractures (76 %) the functional outcome was good or excellent according to the d'Aubigne and Harris scores.
Radiological results were excellent in 21 fractures (57 %) and satisfactory in 12 fractures (Heeg score).
In 7 cases (14 %) a postoperative subcutaneous seroma had to be treated surgically.
No wound infections, however, were observed.
Further complications were secondary a loss of reduction in 4 cases (11 %), relevant heterotopic ossifications (Brooker III/IV) in 5 cases (14 %), and aseptic femoral head necrosis in 2 cases (5 %).
In two cases a total hip replacement (THR) for posttraumatic arthritis had to be performed.
Two more cases are scheduled for THR due to symptomatic femoral head necrosis.
A good joint reconstruction can be achieved through the modified extensile iliofemoral approach (Maryland) in complex fractures of the acetabulum.
However, the approach related morbidity seems to be worrysome.
In complex fractures with comminution in the roof of the acetabulum the prognosis remains uncertain even in cases where initial anatomic joint reconstruction can be achieved.
The discussion on the results of open spinal surgery, in particular, on complications as a result of open surgery, e. g., the so-called post-discotomy syndrome, has led to the development of less invasive methods, especially for treatment of lumbar disc prolapses.
Percutaneous nucleotomy procedures are based on a variety of intradiscal diagnostic and therapy methods, such as discography, retroperitoneal spinal disc fenestration or chemonucleolysis.
Since the 1970 s, various methods such as mechanical percutaneous nucleotomy, automated percutaneous nucleotomy, intradiscal laser procedures and, in part, endoscopic intradiscal procedures have been developed and also used clinically.
The clinical results vary from 30 % good/very good results to almost 100 % good/very good results, depending on the author and study.
It is obvious that not many prospective randomized studies using either conservatively or surgically treated control groups have been conducted.
The results of these studies on intradiscal therapy methods are often analyzed more critically and with lower success rates than the partially retrospective studies of a single method, which often have large case numbers, but do not always meet the demanding criteria for scientific study design.
To attain good results, percutaneous nucleotomy procedures can only be used to treat select cases of lumbar disc disorders according to strict indication criteria.
At the present time it can be concluded that, in comparison to endoscopic und microsurgical methods, percutaneous nucleotomy procedures must be restricted to a small number of cases.
A 58 year old patient with hepatitis virus C (HCV) infection had a secondary polyclonal IgG-IgM cryoglobulinemia with a benign 20 year course.
Clincally the patient suffered from progressive pigmented purpura (PPP).
Histologic evaluation revealed a lymphocytic vasculitis.
Food containing tartrazine trig- gered flares of the PPP, as demonstrated with controlled oral provocation testing.
In most of the previously described cases of HCV and type III cryoglobulinemia, the typical cutaneus finding was palpable purpura with leukocytoclastic vasculitis.
Normal aging is associated with changes in body composition, thirst perception, renal function, and the hormonal regulatory systems involved in the maintenance of water and sodium balance.
The presence of many diseases and drugs common in the elderly can interact with the impaired homeostatic systems to result in clinically significant disturbances of water and sodium with accompanying symptoms, morbidity, and mortality.
These disorders, which include dehydration, hypernatremia, hyponatremia, urinary frequency, and urinary incontinence can either be prevented or promptly recognized and appropriately treated by understanding the physiological changes and clinical circumstances which put the elderly person at increased risk for deranged water and sodium balance.
Although valvular stenosis may be evaluated adequately by measuring transvalvular pressure gradients with Doppler echocardiography and cardiac catheterization, these methods have failed to provide reliable and accurate quantification of valvular regurgitation.
In recent years the development of magnetic resonance imaging has broadened the diagnostic spectrum in cardiology, since it allows assessment of ventricular volumes without geometrical assumptions and the non-invasive quantification of blood flow within the heart and great vessels.
The purpose of this overview is to evaluate "established" diagnostic tools and to show the capabilities of magnetic resonance imaging in the assessment of valvular heart disease.
Solvent induced polyneuropathy and encephalopathy have been acknowledged quite recently as occupational diseases in Germany.
For compensation first of all the diagnosis has to be proven.
For differential diagnosis other known causes as well as non-organic mental diseases must be taken into consideration.
The causality between proven exposures and diagnosed disease has at least to be probable.
To evaluate causation extensive experience of the experts is needed.
In this context scientific criteria regarding neurotoxicity of the solvent, duration of exposure, individual aspects of non-occupational influences, time course of the disease are important within a thorough synoptic evaluation.
Possibilities and limitations of sensitive diagnostic measures such as neurographic, neuropsychologic and neuroimaging examinations are discussed.
The prognosis of toxic polyneuropathy and encephalopathy is in general favorable if exposure has stopped.
Additionally, adequate therapy and rehabilitation measures are supportive for a good prognosis.
Standard radiography of the cervical spine is still the first imaging procedure applied in degenerative disease of the cervical spine.
Spondylosis deformans, osteochondrosis and uncovertebral arthrosis are well depicted by such images.
Whether or not additional imaging is needed depends on the clinical symptoms.
Special projections (anteroposterior oblique radiographs, lateral radiographs in flexion and extension) may be the next step.
For many abnormalities, mainly of the intervertebral discs and the myelon, MR imaging has become the standard procedure, largely because of its multiplanar capabilities and its excellent contrast resolution.
CT can be used instead of MR imaging if the latter method is not available, and its strength lies in the depiction of bone abnormalities.
Scintigraphy is suitable for early detection of abnormalities with unclear clinical symptoms and may then indicate the correct level of the cervical spine for MR imaging or CT. Myelograms and myelo-CT can no longer be considered routine imaging methods.
A number of imaging abnormalities are not strictly related to clinical findings and should therefore always be discussed in the clinical context.
We report on three years of experience with a new method of a simultaneous endoscopically assisted anterior release in the prone position, combined with transpedicular posterior scoliosis correction and fixation.
In 60 cases this simultaneous approach yielded substantial advantages.
True derotation of the apex - even in the thoracic spine - is achieved.
In cases of total canalicular occlusion or the total absence of the lacrimal apparatus the functional restoration requires the repair of a newly created lacrimal system.
The intraoperatively reestablisted lacrimal drainage from the conjunctival sac will be maintained by a plastic tube.
Beside other criteria the influence of the used inserted materials polyethylene or silicone should be evaluated.
A prospective, randomized and controlled trial is conducted to compare carotid endarterectomy and carotid stenting in high grade symptomatic carotid artery stenoses.
Magnetic resonance imaging is used routinely with much success for various problems in different medical disciplines.
However, the patient is exposed to static as well as to time-dependent magnetic fields and radio-frequency electromagnetic fields.
In 1997 the Strahlenschutzkommission, the German Radiological Protection Commission, passed a recommendation on the use of magnetic resonance in medical diagnostics.
In this recommendation basic values related to thresholds for physiological effects and limits for restricted and unrestricted use are given.
In the following the aim and applicability of this recommendation are discussed, as well as the thresholds and different limits for the static magnetic fields, the gradient fields and the radio-frequency fields.
Additionally, advice is given for the protection of high-risk patients, personnel, and the general public, together with further safety advice as well as recommendations for users and manufacturers.
Six patients with granuloma faciale, including patients with multiple lesions, were treated successfully with cryosurgery.
Granuloma faciale is known to be difficult to treat.
Cryosurgery is an effective and minimally invasive therapy for this granulomatous inflammation of the skin.
It should be considered as an alternative to dapsone.
The results of early conversion of war fractures by the application of AO osteosynthesis in A group (n = 32) of the injuried, were compared with B group (n = 187) of injuried, treated definitely with external fixator.
There were statistical evaluations and X-ray observations of healing in both groups, as well as the appearances of the most frequent complications such as: Pintract infection, osteitis, pseudoarthrosis and reoperation.
Statistically less significant appearance of complications in A group during 2th and 6th month (p < 0.001) was observed.
In 12th month of observation, these differences statistically disappeared.
Healing observed by X-ray in 2th, 6th and 12th month of observation were no statistically significant differences between the two observed groups.
Since 1993, 30 patients with acute intraarticular distal radius fractures have been treated under arthroscopic assistance.
In 12 patients (40%) concomitant lesions of the intrinsic scapholunate ligaments were diagnosed.
According to Geissler we found grade I-tear in one patient, grade II in three, grade III in six and grade IV in two patients.
The eight individuals with grade III-and IV-lesions additionally revealed marked instablity intraoperatively.
Therefore, operative stabilization was subsequently performed by temporary scapholunate and scaphocapitate arthrodesis.
Seven patients out of this group (87.5%) were followed up clinically and radiologically 3 years postoperatively, on average.
Clinical examination included range of motion tests and a subjective questionnaire concerning pain and working ability.
Objective grip strength was measured using a Jamar tester and compared to the contralateral wrist.
Radiological evaluation consisted of the posteroanterior and lateral view as well as stress views in radial and ulnar deviation.
Data were evaluated by the Jakim and Cooney scoring system as well as the demerit point system by Gartland and Werley as modified by Sarmiento et al.
According to Gartland, 100% of our patients showed an excellent result; these rates were 86% using the Jakim score and 60% using the Cooney scoring system.
According to the subjective questionnaire all of the patients revealed an excellent or good result.
Open treatment of shoulder instabilities is well accepted and still golden standard.
But arthroscopic techniques show also good and comparable results.
Arthroscopic procedures however are not accepted for treatment of failures and revision cases.
Therefore we questioned whether a arthroscopic revision procedure is an option after failed first time open or arthroscopic stabilization.
This prospective study was designed to assess the outcome of arthroscopic revision procedures after failed shoulder stabilization.
In 1991 the diagnosis of cerebral circulatory arrest with Doppler sonography was accepted by the Medical Council of the Bundesaerztekammer as one of the methods able to shorten the waiting time for fulfilling the criteria for diagnosis of cerebral death.
A survey was undertaken to determine how frequently Doppler sonography has been used since that time in certifying brain death.
A total of 400 questionnaires were sent out to all neurological (272) and neurosurgical (128) departments in Germany.
In all, 226 questionnaires were returned.
In 71 departments, Doppler sonography has been used to certify brain death, mostly combined with other methods.
The question of whether false positive results have been observed was answered five times in the affirmative.
The background to these cases was clarified by telephone calls.
In order to indicate pitfalls, the examiners reported borderline situations which in part did not fulfil the prerequisites.
In none of these cases had the diagnosis of brain death been based on ultrasound data.
Doppler sonography for the diagnosis of cerebral circulatory arrest has been used by a considerable number of neurological and neurosurgical departments in Germany as an additional confirmatory test and rather seldom as the only method to shorten the waiting period.
We report on a 64-year-old man who died within 1 h after admission to hospital with symptoms of respiratory insufficiency.
Autopsy showed as cause of death a clinically unknown coagulase-negative staphylococci-induced left-sided endocarditis with perforation of the aortic and mitral valve.
Infective endocarditis by coagulase-negative staphylococci in native valves is a rare event.
The macroscopic appearance and histological findings are presented and discussed.
Thrombolysis therapy in childhood and adolescence has brought about numerous case reports, but no controlled studies over dosage and duration of therapy have been published to date.
Laserotoscopes are suitable for low-pain outpatient surgery of otitis media with effusion (OME) under topical anesthesia.
The myringotomy perforations should have a diameter greater than 2 mm to ventilate the middle ear for approximately 3 weeks.
Comparison by skin epiluminescent microscopy of 60 malignant melanomas and 130 junctional and compound naevocellular naevi revealed statistically significant differences for 12 characteristics.
The following microscopical in vivo signs that can be defined by histopathological examination were found only in malignant or premalignant melanocytic lesions: digitated radial streaming, greyish-blue reticular patterns, opaque gypseous alabaster lacunas, brown/black dots on a blue/greyish background, pseudopodia at the periphery and blue-in-pink areas.
Nevertheless, specific epiluminescent phenomena of histopathologically defined malignant melanomas are still unknown.
Therefore, diagnostic evaluation of malignancy is based mainly on microscopic assessment of combined details of morphology and colour of melanocytic tumours.
The present study examines the relationship between different psychological variables (including anxiety, depression, locus of control, expectations of pain intensity and social support) and postoperative pain, analgesic consumption and satisfaction with the pain management in a study sample of 67 patients.
Clinical experience of 11 patients with CHARGE association is reviewed.
The study comprised six girls and five boys.
All presented with congenital heart disease.
Eight had bilateral choanal atresia.
Coloboma affecting either one or both eyes was detected in nine children.
Nine patients suffered abnormal pinnae or deafness.
In addition to major abnormalities, further anomalies of the orofacial region and the upper airways occurred in all patients.
All children exhibited velopharyngeal incoordination and swallowing problems often resulting in recurrent aspiration pneumonia.
Three patients had cleft lip and palate.
Both micrognathia and high-arched palate were present in two patients.
Facial palsy was observed in six patients.
Optimal management requires a multidisciplinary approach with active coordination and cooperation between the appropriate specialities.
The anatomical repair of bilateral choanal atresia should be performed as early as possible.
In our experience, the transpalatal approach is far more satisfactory than the transnasal.
It gives the surgeon the opportunity of direct access and anatomical repair.
After the child has grown stronger, a long-term management is desirable including developmental and feeding training.
Thrilling are especially those situations, when people have to make ethical decisions.
Issues of medical ethics crop up not only in hospital series, but often in genres where this subject is hardly to be supposed: comedies, westerns, love stories and gangster movies.
Enacting these conflicts means offering a solution, and in doing so films refer to moral values and - at the same time - function as seismographs for the social relevance of bioethical topics.
But it is possible that ethical principles of good decision-making fall victims to the drama of the story.
Analysis of the portrayed conflict is similar to a case discussion in bioethics and represents a helpful adjunct to the procurement of analytical and communicative competences.
Several experimental studies and randomized clinical trials demonstrate a decrease of local tumor control with increasing overall treatment time of fractionated radiotherapy.
Proliferation or clonogenic tumor cells most likely is the major mechanism underlying this phenomenon.
Important progress in radiation oncology might therefore be expected from inhibition of proliferation of clonogenic cells during radiation treatment.
Possibilities to minimize the time factor are briefly discussed.
Inhibition of proliferation of clonogenic tumor cells during irradiation by simultaneous chemotherapy, by inhibition of signal transduction pathways that stimulate proliferation, or by pharmacological inhibition of angiogenesis are scientifically interesting but currently not proven to be effective to counteract the loss of local tumor control with increasing overall treatment of fractionated irradiation.
At present, the only established approach is to complete radiotherapy within a short overall treatment time, e. g. by accelerated fractionation and by prevention or compensation of unscheduled treatment gaps.
Technical innovations and software improvements in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and high-resolution sonography (US) have definitely influenced the diagnostic imaging of rheumatic diseases.
For MRI, improvements in surface coils, dedicated low-field systems (0.2 T), and software improvements (shorter acquisition times and refinements of fat suppressing techniques) must be mentioned.
For sonography, the main innovations concern the development of higher transducer frequencies (7-15 Mhz) and power Doppler imaging.
Clinical evaluations have shown that MRI and US are most useful in cases of suspected rheumatic disease with negative plain film radiographs and for documenting the course of the disease, diagnosing of early rheumatoid arthritis, making a differential diagnosis in clinically unclear rheumatic diseases, investigating vascularization, and quantifying pannus formation.
In order to improve diagnostic efficacy the role of MRI and US in the management of patients with rheumatic disease should be reconsidered.
In addition to renal elimination and gastrointestinal metabolism (amylase; splenic and hepatic dextranase) colloid plasma solutions like dextran and hydroxyethyl starch deposit in tissues, especially in the reticuloendothelial system (RES).
This tissue storage is limited in time (weeks to months), is influenced by the employed solution and other factors (lysosomes) and has usually no clinical importance (no RES blockade).
We report here a case study of a patient with sepsis (lung, liver and kidney failure) who had an overload of the RES with colloids while being treated with dextran (molecular weight 40000 and 70000 daltons) and hydroxyethyl starch (mw 450000 daltons, molar substitution 0,7).
In the late seventies and early eighties the toxic shock syndrome (TSS) became epidemic among young menstruating women.
A strong correlation was found between TSS and the rising popularity of hyperabsorbent tampons.
Exotoxin-producing Staphylococcus aureus is seen as the main mediator of TSS in controlled clinical trials.
Menstrual and nonmenstrual forms of TSS are differentiated.
The nonmenstrual form is comparatively rare and has a high rate of mortality rate.
Several studies showed that the overall incidence of menstrual and nonmenstrual TSS is approximately 1-3 cases per 100 000 persons.
The leading symptoms are fever, hypotension, mucous membrane hyperemia, diffuse rashes, myalgias, vomiting and diarrhea.
The severe form of the syndrome leads to multiorgan dysfunction.
The streptococcal TSS (STSS) caused by group A Streptococci is clinically similar to the staphylococcal TSS.
Both Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococci produce the exotoxin TSST-1.
New methods allow the detection of TSST-1 production.
However, due to the low incidence of TSS, this method of detection has not yet been taken up in the routine diagnostic procedures.
This report focusses on the emergence and spread of S. aureus with special clinical and epidemiological significance.
Results from typing MRSA originating from different clinical sources in all Germany reveal that there is a continuing interhospital dissemination of definite epidemic strains and also a spread of the mecA gene to clonal groups of S. aureus which have been until now sensitive.
These newly emerging MRSA are still sensitive to a number of other antibiotics.
This results in less broad resistance phenotypes of currently disseminated MRSA.
Worth mentioning with regard to diagnostics are also three clinical cases of staphylococcal toxic shock syndrome caused by S. aureus possessing secC and not tst.
Background: For cataract surgery in this country retro- and peribulbar anesthesia is the standard method.
It totally stops eye movement as well as sensitivity to pain.
Especially peribulbar anesthesia is known as a procedure with minimal complications, but the potential risks can be severe.
In the past sponge anesthesia could not be used on patients with difficult cataract surgery due to the insufficient anesthetic effect.
A modified anesthetic method is demonstrated for complicated cataract surgery.
In patients with coronary artery disease, it is controversial whether cardiac arrhythmias result from acute subendocardial ischemia.
The aim of this study was to analyze the relationship between myocardial ischemia and ventricular arrhythmia.
The immunopathogenesis of cardiac rhythm and conduction disorders has been underestimated.
Therefore, the aim of this review is to analyze the current data and controversial issues in this area.
We report the case of an 8 year old boy with a rare congenital myopathy (with cytoplasmic inclusions bodies) and clinical signs of rigid-spine-syndrome.
During treatment of lung tuberculosis disordered breathing with hypoventilation during REM-sleep, hypoxemia and persistent hypercapnia during daytime were found.
This complication in myopathies is caused by weakness of respiratory muscles and leads to negative features (like pulmonary hypertension, daytime-sleepiness, growth failure or further impairement of the muscle disease).
Diagnostic steps in disorders of breathing during sleep in children with neuromuscular disease are shown.
Aortic dissection with no entry or false lumen flow was recently identified as intramural hemorrhage of the aortic wall (IMH).
Analysis of the literature revealed 209 cases of in vivo diagnosed IMH reflecting 17% of all dissections, whereas in autoptic studies this condition is found in 4-13%.
Transesophageal echocardiography, computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging and aortography (to rule out dissection) have been applied for diagnosing IMH in 57, 49, 43 and 38% of the cases, respectively.
However, diagnostic accuracy of each modality is not available to date.
In 34%, IMH involves the ascending aorta (type A).
The average age of patients with IMH ranges between 55 and 65 years; 65% are males.
In 12%, IMH was associated with abdominal aortic aneurysm.
With 87%, arterial hypertension is the predominant risk factor for IMH irrespective of its location.
As suggested by the term "mediastinal apoplexy" IMH may - similar to cerebral apoplexy - result from hypertensive rupture of the vasa vasorum in the aortic media.
With 97%, the majority of patients present with acute chest or back pain similar to classic dissection.
Mediastinal widening is found in 83%; signs of hemothorax/pleural effusion are present in 38%, acute aortic regurgitation in 26%, pericardial effusion in 23%, acute neurologic deficits in 12%, and pulse deficits in 5%.
In 18%, IMH progresses to dissection and in another 15% to rupture.
In 25% and 28%, respectively, dissection and rupture occur in the ascending aorta and in 12% and 9%, respectively, in the descending thoracic aorta.
The 30-day mortality of IMH is 24% (36% with type A and 12% with type B IMH; p<0.05).
With surgical repair, mortality of type A IMH is lowered to 18% compared to 60% with medical treatment (p<0.01).
In contrast, with 8% mortality associated with medical treatment, prognosis of type B IMH is more favorable without surgical intervention, the latter associated with a 30-day mortality of 33% (p<0.05).
Thus, IMH is a potential precursor of dissection and should be managed like dissection with undelayed surgical intervention in patients with type A IMH and with medical treatment in type B IMH.
We report on 3 exemplary case studies of patients with myelomeningocele who are under regular care in our outpatient clinic, and discuss the clinical and diagnostic problems and the therapeutic concept of fractures in patients with myelomeningocele.
Our case reports are in accordance to previous publications; they show that signs of confined and systemic infection and variable X-ray signs with often extensive reactive formation of callus make the diagnosis of fractures in myelomeningocele patients difficult.
Fractures often occur without pain or trauma.
Background: Since the end of the 1960ies, accidents have been identified as the most common cause of mortality in children and account for considerable childhood morbidity in industrialized western countries.
In contrast to traffic-related accidents in older children and adolescents, which were consequently registered and documented, no epidemiological data exist about home injuries and accidents during the first years of life in Germany.
This report presents data on accident-related hospitalizations in a cohort of 10271 infants, who participated in a prospective vaccine efficacy trial in Germany from 1991 to 1994.
One-hundred-thirty patients underwent 53 electrophysiological studies including programmed atrial and ventricular stimulation and 96 atrial overdrive stimulations on an outpatient basis.
The indications for electrophysiological study were disabling palpitation, syncope, or presyncope, intracardiac conduction disturbance, and bradyarrhythmia.
In one patient the efficacy of oral antiarrhythmic drug therapy was evaluated by repeat electrophysiological study.
Atrial overdrive stimulation was performed in patients with atrial flutter or atrial tachycardia.
On the basis of the result of electrophysiological testing, 25 patients were believed not to require any treatment, 16 patients received new drug therapy, 7 patients underwent catheter ablation in a second session, 2 patients had either a pacemaker or an ICD implanted, and 1 patient continued to receive the drug therapy that had been tested.
Atrial overdrive stimulation resulted in a regular sinus rhythm in 66 patients (69%).
Except for one patient in whom atrial flutter could not be terminated, atrial fibrillation was induced in the remaining 30 patients.
After the procedure, patients were monitored for 30 min in case of overdrive stimulation, and for approximately 3 h after electrophysiological study or 6 h if additional coronary angiography had been performed.
Severe complications were not observed.
In 10 cases minor hematoma occurred at the puncture site without serious sequelae.
- Outpatients electrophysiological study as well as atrial overdrive stimulation are feasible and safe in a selected group of patients.
Endosteal implants after tumor surgery of the face are helpful in reconstructing facial defects.
A retrospective study of our patients treated using craniofacial implants was conducted to evaluate long-term results.
A total of 128 implants were inserted, 110 implants in the periorbital, 12 implants in the mastoid, and six implants in the paranasal region; 113 implants were short craniofacial Brånemark implants, and 15 implants were dental implants.
The success rate for implant survival was 94.5%.
Long-term results were promising and more than satisfactory, leading to a large indication for these endosteal implants.
The term "Ecstasy" includes a group of different methylenedioxyamphetamines which produce hallucinogenic activity, stimulation and the so-called 'entactogenic' effects.
- "Entactogen" is usually translated as "producing a touching within" or "creating an internal contact" and refers to the special psychotropic effect of this substances.
Entactogens have been reported to make users aware of previously unconscious feelings and experiences.
The "entactogenic" effect is the most typical of the psychedelic effects n 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDMA).
MDMA induces euphoria and acts stimulating, but the most common effect of MDMA is a heightened sense of "closeness" with other people.
The negative effects, especially depression and a general sense of anxiety, may endure after the acute phase of ecstasy.
Ecstasy is not a novel substance.
However, the rapid spread connected with the arising techno-scene and the increasing prevalence of ecstasy-use world-wide is unprecedented.
Cisatracurium - one of the ten stereoisomers of atracurium - is an intermediate long-acting non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent.
Cardiovascular reactions have been described after administration of cisatracurium or vecuronium in surgical patients.
After approval by our institutional review board, 62 patients (ASA I-II) were randomly assigned to three groups to either receive 3xED95 or 5xED95 of cisatracurium or 3xED90 of vecuronium prior to intubation as a bolus.
After oral premedication with 2 mg lormetazepam anaesthesia was induced with thiopental (4-12 mg/kg) and maintained with O2/N2O and isoflurane (1.5%-2%).
Six minutes after administration of thiopental, patients received the muscle relaxant.
Six minutes later 0.1-0.2 mg fentanyl was given and the trachea was intubated.
Heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP) were monitored every minute.
Changes of heart rate or blood pressure >20% compared to baseline were defined as clinically significant.
After application of the study drug, median values of blood pressure and heart rate were stable.
For each muscle relaxant, there were several patients who had statistically significant cardiovascular changes.
After 3xED95 cisatracurium, 3 of 21 patients exhibited haemodynamic changes >20% (2 exhibited hypotension and 1 tachycardia), while in the high-dose cisatracurium group 2 of 21 patients demonstrated a tachycardia that was predetermined to be statistically but not clinically significant.
In the vecuronium group, 2 of 20 patients sustained statistically significant hypotension and 1 patient had statistically significant tachycardia.
The frequency of all individual cardiovascular changes after the application of the muscle relaxant was not dose-dependent.
After the administration of cisatracurium in two different doses (3xED95 and 5xED95) or vecuronium (3xED90) only minor cardiovascular changes were observed.
Both drugs proved to be safe for use during induction of anaesthesia in patients ASA I-II.
With regard to its cardiovascular effects, cisatracurium shares with vecuronium the requirements of an ideal muscle relaxant.
Between June 1993 and September 1995, 18 distal femoral fractures were treated using the supracondylar intramedullary nail.
There were 8 type A fractures and 10 type C fractures (AO classification).
The operative technique involved retrograde insertion of an unreamed supracondylar nail through the intercondylar notch.
Follow-up was available on all patients and averaged 18.3 months (range 6-32 months).
All fractures healed with an average time to union of 12.4 weeks (range 8-16 weeks).
Bone grafting was not necessary in any case.
Sixteen patients achieved almost the same ROM as they had had before the injury.
One patient developed a varus malignment and underwent correction with a supracondylar osteotomy 20 months post trauma.
There were no infections or nonunions.
The retrograde supracondylar nail is an excellent alternative to plate osteosynthesis in the management of dia- and supracondylar femoral fractures.
Autolyzed, antigen-extracted, allogenic (AAA) bone is an osteoinductive preparation of completely demineralized bone matrix.
It has been clinically applied for years.
In an experimental study in rabbits, we evaluated the influence of cortical bone and periosteum on the amount of bone formation following augmentation with AAA bone.
Two implants of standardized size were placed on the femoral bone of rabbits.
A cell-excluding PTFE membrane was wrapped circularly around the femur as well as the anterior implant shielding the implant from the surrounding periosteum.
The posterior implant was exposed directly to the periosteum while being shielded from the cortical bone by the membrane.
Thus, two compartments were created selectively, preventing contact between the periosteum or cortical bone and the implants.
For each compartment the area and volume of the induced new bone were evaluated by computerized radiograph analysis and quantitative CT (pQCT) scans.
Implantation of AAA bone led to new bone formation in both compartments.
Contact of the periosteum and the implant led to an almost fourfold increase in bone volume.
Although bone formation showed interindividual variations, the difference of both compartments was highly significant using the Student's t-test for paired samples (P < 0.0001).
The data show that periosteum is the primary source of new bone formation in augmentations with osteoinductive materials as it is rich in inducible progenitor cells and is well vascularized.
In osseous augmentations with AAA bone, the periosteum should be preserved in order to achieve a close contact of the osteoinductive implant.
Shielding from the periosteum, e.g., by cell-excluding membranes, leads to significantly less bone formation following implantation of AAA bone and should therefore be avoided.
Computed tomography is a significant source of medical radiation exposure for populations in Europe.
Reduced radiation exposure may be possible with modern CT scanners with an image quality that while less good than before remains acceptable for clinical purposes.
The lung appears particularly well suited to investigation with low-dose CT owing to the high contrast between normal and diseased pulmonary parenchyma.
Undernutrition, particularly protein undernutrition, contributes to the occurrence of osteoporotic fracture, by lowering bone mass and altering muscle strength.
Furthermore, the rate of medical complications after fracture can also be increased by nutritional deficiency.
The IGF-I system appears to be directly involved in the pathogenetic mechanisms leading to osteoporotic hip fracture in elderly and to its complications.
In the presence of adequate calcium and vitamin D supplies, protein supplements increasing the intakes from low to normal, raises IGF-I levels, improves the clinical outcome after hip fracture, and attenuates the decrease in proximal femur bone mineral density in the year following the fracture.
This nutritional approach is associated with a significant reduction of the stay in rehabilitation hospital.
This underlines the importance of nutritional supports in preventing and healing osteoporotic fractures.
The article discusses changes in the context within which the social professions are exercised.
The chances for a refinancing of social work and indeed its very locations change in line with the transition to new steering elements in the social body and the new implementation of competitive elements in the realm of public law.
With the economising of the social sphere social work is questioned under economic aspects.
Simultaneously it gains normative significance.
This is true with regard to standards for the quality of services and institutions, and further in the context of the discussion concerning the revitalisation of local social policy for the elderly.
Precisely the economising of the social sphere raises the question whether the municipalities may be excused from their responsibility to form, preserve and support the obligations of social work with the elderly.
A comparison was made of the staining intensities of selected immunohistochemical proliferating antigens (p53, PCNA, Ki67), DNA flow-cytometry and ultrastructures of neoplastic cells from 120 cases of laryngeal cancers.
Clinically very advanced tumors were in the majority (T3, 43%; T4, 18%).
A 5-grade scale was adopted to evaluate the level of immunohistochemical staining of the carcinoma cell nuclei.
Positive staining was obtained in 70% for p53, 57% for Ki67 and 80% for PCNA.
Sixty-two percent of the cases were DNA-diploid and 38% DNA-aneuploid.
The DNA-diploid carcinomas were accompanied by enlargement of the cell nuclei, preservation of wide margins of nuclear heterochromatin, enlargements of the nuclear areas and increases in the number of nuclei.
In the aneuploid-polyploid cancers the nuclei had a substantial polymorphism, with large cleaved nuclei showing significant variations in size and having a nuclear envelope.
A frequent finding was euchromatization of chromatin.
Dense chromatin appeared in the form of small clumps spread over the whole area of these irregular nuclei.
Enlargement and activation of nucleoli were found.
The antipyretic analgesics still comprise the most widely used group of analgesic compounds.
Until twenty years ago, aspirin, phenazone derivatives and acetaminophen had been used as standard remedies for intercurrent harmless pain conditions in connection with infections, trauma, small surgeries, but also for tension headache and other painful conditions.
During the last decades, this group has been supplemented by a variety of 2-arylpropionic acids being primarily developed for the treatment of rheumatic pain and inflammation.
Some of them (e.g.
ibuprofen, ketoprofen and naproxen) have been given over-the-counter status in some countries because of their relative safety at low doses.
Nevertheless, pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic differences among the various substances of this group make them suitable to a different degree for the treatment of pain conditions.
A 38-year-old man presented with an intracranial extra-axial tumour at the base of the left posterior fossa which proved to be a meningeal melanocytoma.
Meningeal melanocytoma is a rare, benign melanotic tumour of the leptomeninges occuring predominantly in the posterior fossa or the upper spinal cord in adults.
It shows characteristic cytologic features with isomorphic epitheloid or spindle-shaped cells, often with prominent nucleoli and a variable content of intracytoplasmic melanin.
It usually lacks signs of malignancy such as high mitotic rate, necroses or infiltrative growth and shows a low labeling index in proliferation marker studies.
Its immunohistological profile with S-100 protein-, vimentin- and HMB-45-positive tumour cells is similar to that of (primary or metastatic) malignant melanoma.
This differential diagnosis is crucial because of the totally different therapeutic and prognostic implications.
Therefore, everyone dealing with surgical neuropathology should be familiar with the rare, but clinically important diagnosis of meningeal melanocytoma.
A 54-year old, obese woman suffered from massive symmetrical swelling of the face, especially of the upper and lower eyelids.
Initially the swelling occured intermittently, but after 2 years it was permanent and progressive markedly limiting her visual fields.
Neither laboratory findings nor imaging procedures provided any firm evidence of an underlying cardiac, renal or endocrinological disease.
There was no suggestion of a storage disease.
Skin biopsy showed foam cells and granulomatous inflammation, so the patient was tentatively diagnosed as having a monosymptomatic Melkersson-Rosenthal Syndrome.
Eyelid surgery was performed to improve her visual fields.
Treatment with clofazimine 100 mg daily was initiated.
Regular follow-up visits over 7 months revealed no evidence of recurrence.
The patient died a sudden cardiac death a few months later.
The relatives refused an autopsy.
The definite cause of her facial swelling remains unclear as we discuss the differential diagnostic possibilities.
An 81-year-old patient had prolonged competitive neuromuscular blockade with train-of-four ratios of 0.1 and 0.5, respectively, after two successive anaesthesia procedures (enflurane-N2O/O2; vecuronium-succinylcholine-sequence) for transurethral prostate resection.
Although antagonism with neostigmine was promptly successful after the first, 65-min period of anaesthesia (1.5 mg vecuronium for precurarization, 100 mg succinylcholine for intubation, 3 mg vecuronium), repetitive and chronologically staggered administration of neostigmine after the second, 30-min period of anaesthesia (1 mg vecuronium for precurarization, 100 mg succinylcholine for intubation) had hardly any effect, so that the patient had to be ventilated mechanically for a total of 4.5 h. Laboratory analysis revealed homozygous, atypical, plasma cholinesterase (790 U/l; dibucaine number 23; genotype E<![CDATA[|lefbop|a<![CDATA[|clobop||opnbop|1<![CDATA[|clobop|E<![CDATA[|lefbop|a<![CDATA[|clobop||opnbop|1<![CDATA[|clobop|).
This retrospectively confirmed a succinylcholine-induced phase II block in both instances, as had already been suspected following the second anaesthetic procedure.
The degree of block transformation, and thus the available time, are decisive in explaining the diverse effects of antagonism here.
It must be assumed that a complete phase II block developed after the first succinylcholine exposure owing to the longer duration of anaesthesia; the purely competitive component (train-of-four ratio 0.1) was easily antagonized by neostigmine.
At the time of the attempted antagonism after the second, shorter period of anaesthesia, however, block transformation was still incomplete (train-of-four ratio 0.5).
The administration of neostigmine therefore rather intensified the depolarization segment of the mixed block, so that repeated attempts at antagonism then inhibited any further block transformation.
The Ph1-negative groups of chronic myeloproliferative diseases (CMPD) are described, and histopathological criteria that distinguish them from each other are given.
These are based upon observations in primary biopsies from 2,331 patients with CMPDs among a total of 34,160 patients referred between 1 January 1989 and 30 June 1994 to the Bone Marrow Registry.
These cases of CMPD break down into the main groups as follows: CML 23.2 %, megakaryocytic myelosis consistent with agnogenic myeloid metaplasia 22.3 %, essential thrombocythemia 22.1 %, and polycythemia vera 20.4 %; 12.0 % of cases were unclassifiable.
Histological progress in each group is characterized by (1) increasing number and pleomorphy of megakaryocytes, (2) increasing fibrosis, and (3) excess of blasts.
These three features can be observed in diagnostic biopsies before any therapy.
Therefore, it is recommended that such alterations be reported semiquantitatively.
A staging system with four stages from 0 to 3 for each of the three features is introduced.
Its application allows staging for the individual patient on the basis of diagnostic biop-sies.
Chondral and osteochondral lesions as well as bone bruises of the ankle are caused in the most cases by trauma and are localized almost exclusively at the talus.
For diagnosis, operative management and follow up, magnetic resonance imaging was useful, which can be further improved by application of intravenous or intraarticullar contrast enhancement (Gadolinium).
In adults operative therapy is favored.
Due to new techniques, arthroscopy became an important alternative to arthrotomy.
According to the stage of the disease, drilling or curettage, removal or fixation of the fragment, autologous bone transplantation or osteochondral graft can be performed.
All procedures can be managed arthroscopically.
General Psychotherapy isn't a new type of therapy, but it could be a paradigmatic model for all empirically-oriented psychotherapists.
The contents of this model are defined.
Arguments and reasons are put forward as to why the practice of psychotherapy should be guided by empirically based procedure rules instead of by therapy methods.
The procedure rules should be joined together by a theoretical conception of psychological functioning, from which their relative significance and prescription conditions can be derived.
A consistency-theory based model of psychological functioning is sketched, from which conclusions can be drawn about the emergence and maintenance of psychological disorders on the one hand and the prescription conditions of different therapeutic procedures on the other.
The advantages of this model in view of a general psychotherapy are discussed.
In the Federal Republic of Germany, no data existed regarding the frequency of open heart surgery for excision of cardiac neoplasms.
Therefore, a standard questionnaire concerning heart tumors was sent to all 77 German heart centers performing cardiac surgery.
Although induction chemotherapy administered prior to local therapy produces encouraging initial response rates in head and neck cancer, randomized studies have failed to demonstrate an improvement in survival rates.
All randomized studies included only patients with advanced stage III and IV disease.
In our opinion, this is the main reason for the low rate of complete responses demonstrated in the randomized trials (maximum 18%).
estimate that a 40%-50% complete response rate is necessary before improved survival rates are seen.
To date, such complete response rates with induction chemotherapy have only been attainable in resectable T2-T3, N0-N2 disease.
Therefore, we initiated a prospective randomized trial including only patients with the mentioned disease stages.
Patients (pts) were randomized to receive either induction chemotherapy with three cycles of carboplatin/5-FU prior to surgery and radiotherapy (arm A, 70 pts) or standard treatment with surgery and radiotherapy (arm B, 74 pts).
Patients were classified according to primary tumour site and neck disease.
The observed remission rate after chemotherapy confirmed the primary estimated rate for this subgroup of patients with head and neck cancer (CR: 43%, PR: 37%, NR: 15%, PD: 5%).
After a follow-up of 12-96 months overall survival was 58% in arm A and 45% in arm B (n.s.).
Disease-free survival in arm A (61%) is statistically significantly better than in arm B (43%, P=0.03).
Therefore, we recommend further controlled trials to investigate the role of induction chemotherapy in patients with primary resectable carcinomas of the oral cavity and tonsils and stage T2-T3 and N0-N2 disease prior to surgery.
Minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass surgery has evolved as a reliable method to perform left internal mammary artery (LIMA) bypass surgery to the LAD.
This novel technique represents a synthesis of known approaches to coronary surgery using sternotomy without extracorporeal circulation and limited access techniques in general thoracic surgery.
Applying specially designed tools for both harvesting the internal mammary artery and mechanically stabilizing the anterior surface of the heart during anastomosis, this approach is gaining widespread acceptance.
A steadily growing number of patients with proximal LAD lesions are submitted to cardiac surgery and the procedure is performed with increasing success rates, now approaching 98% short term patency.
In a specific series war injuries in the trochanteric region were characterized; a limited methodological approach magnified the problem.
Our experience and the treatment results (debridement, drainage and external fixation) are presented.
The methodology, complications and final results are also given for 15 patients.
Consolidation was achieved in primary external fixation without additional procedures such as spongioplasty or internal fixation conversion methods.
The time to consolidation without complications was 28.6 weeks (24-36) and with complications (deep infections, chronic osteomyelitis) 40.8 weeks (28-68).
In total, there was one poor result with angulation, shortening of the extremity and chronic intermittent fistulation.
The average follow-up was 22.7 months (1-34 months).
Our personal experience and the results speak on behalf of external fixation.
Under war conditions, primary fixation ensures the best late anatomical and functional results.
Minimal osteosynthesis improves the final outcome if the rules of application and the indications for selection are adhered to strictly.
Introduction of the computed tomography index CTDI and the multiple scan average dose (MSAD) has led to standardization of the dose description in CT examinations.
Despite the use of these dose parameters, many different dosages are reported in the literature for different CT methods.
In addition, there is still a wide range of radiation dosimetry results reported for conventional CT, helical CT, and HRCT used in chest examinations.
The variations in dosage are mainly due to differences in factors affecting the dose, i. e. beam geometry, beam quality, scanner geometry ("generation"), and operating parameters.
In addition, CT dosimetry instrumentation and methodology make a contribution to dosages.
Recent studies calculating differences in factors affecting dosage and CT dosimetry and using similar operating parameters, show similar results in CT dosimetry for conventional and helical CT. On the other hand, dosages for HRCT were greatly reduced.
This was mainly caused by narrow beam collimation and increasing section spacing.
Central pulmonary embolism represents one of the most threatening complications in surgical patients.
In most cases deep vein thrombosis of the lower extremities is the source of emboli.
Despite the introduction of hypocoagulative drugs in standard surgical concepts the incidence of deep vein thrombosis remains about 10 % in trauma patients.
Estimated numbers of unknown cases of pulmonary embolism are supposed to be rather high too.
In haemodynamically symptomatic pulmonary embolism events and especially when the patient has to be reanimated, mortality rates of up to 93 % are reported in literature.
After introduction of the heart- and lung-machine in the surgical concept of therapy, survival rates have increased significantly.
We report on three cases of successful surgical embolectomy after CPR.
In a review of literature current concepts of treatment in central pulmonary embolism are discussed.
Imaging of tumors of the pancreas may have a series of significant implications for surgical decision making.
First of all verification and localization of a suspected tumor is crucial.
Later on, accurate staging of local tumor extent and of distant metastases is necessary for evaluating the indications for surgical intervention.
If histologic proof of malignancy of a pancreatic lesion is needed, different imaging techniques can be used for percutaneous biopsy of the tumor.
Finally imaging is required in patients with a pancreatic tumor if an obstruction of the common bile duct is treated with palliative intent by endoscopy or transhepatic intervention.
A rational and efficient selection from all the imaging techniques currently available requires a clear-cut definition of what is needed for surgical decision making in each individual case.
Thereby one has to take into account whether the tumor arises from the exocrine or from the endocrine tissue of the pancreas.
In spite of the importance of skin diseases in Africa south of the Sahara, dermatology is insufficiently represented within the established primary health care systems.
Aim of this study was to find out whether an integrated dermatology project could reduce the prevalence of dermatoses.
Magnetic resonance imaging has shown to be a sensitive method for diagnostics of the red bone marrow, the composition of which changes physiologically and during pathological processes.
However, the interpretation of MRI in patients with disorders of the red bone marrow is very difficult.
The aim of this study was the characterization of the proton spectrum of healthy bone marrow and its age- and sex-dependent changes to obtain a data basis for measurements in patients.
We report a case of a 26-year-old patient, a tilelayer by profession, with a history of a fall from a height of 5 meters with blunt thoracic injury and resultant left atrial rupture.
The emergency doctor found at the site of accident a deeply comatose patient (Glasgow Coma Scale 3 points) with no recordable blood pressure.
After two hours of resuscitation at the site of accident and at the closest emergency traumatology unit a marginal blood pressure was seen.
With a suspicion of a closed ascending aortic rupture the patient was transferred to the nearest cardiothoracic surgical unit.
During transfer, the patient had a cardiac standstill with asystole and was further reanimated and resuscitated.
On arrival the patient was transferred to the operation theatre immediately and after femoro-femoral cannulation was supported by a heart-lung-machine circulation.
Through an optimal exposition the internal thoracic organs were inspected in detail and the rupture of the left atrium was identified and treated.
The heart was effectively emptied and with deep hypothermia with a reduction of oxygen consumption by all organs especially the brain was taken care of.
The patient could be discharged from hospital on the 18th postoperative day in absolute good health.
Since mitochondrial diseases lead frequently to severe phenotypes and are often hereditary, there is a need for genetic counselling of the affected families.
The specific features of mitochondrial genetics, however, hamper straightforward definition of recurrence risks as in Mendelian diseases.
Empirical risks were recently provided for MELAS and MERRF syndromes and for Leber hereditary optic neuropathy.
In MELAS and MERFF, higher levels of mutant mtDNA in the mothers' blood were associated with an increased frequency of affected offspring.
Chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia and Kearns-Sayre syndrome are in general sporadic disorders without increased recurrence risks in the offspring.
As Leigh syndrome is found with maternal, autosomal recessive or X chromosomal transmission, the definition of the molecular defect is crucial for genetic counselling.
Prenatal diagnosis was reported only in one case of mitochondrial disease so far, and in our opinion it remains questionable because of the uncertain correlation of the proportion of mutant DNA in chorionic villi and in  clinically relevant tissues such as brain.
An accurate and complete depiction of the halo naevus has been left by Matthias Grünewald in his painting "The Temptation of St. Anthony", which is part of the Isenheim altar piece (1512 - 1516), which is now exhibited in Colmar, Alsace.
In contrast, Sutton in 1916 only described a "leucoderma acquisitum centrifugum", leaving the nature of the central lesion in the dark.
The term Sutton naevus therefore appears less appropriate than the alternative eponymic designation "Grünewald naevus".
In women with breast cancer, staging of the tumor plays an important role and often is considered to be the most prognostic and therapeutic factor.
The most widely used staging system is based on the pathologic TNM classification.
In recent years conservative therapies such as preoperative chemo- or radiotherapy are used more often with limited tissue evaluation resulting in insufficient or even inaccurate staging data.
Tumor size as well as nodal involvement is decisive in selecting a treatment method and assessing the response.
Thus, more accurate preoperative in vivo staging is necessary.
This article therefore gives an overview of the different imaging modalities (mammography, ultrasonography, magnetic resonance imaging, and nuclear medicine) used for breast cancer staging.
Furthermore, results of these methods are compared critically with the pathohistologic staging.
The lack of muscle control in neurological disorders often leads to deformities of the foot.
The equinus (a contracture of the triceps surae muscle), the abduction and clubfoot deformity are the most common ones.
The present paper describes the deformities and stresses the functional relevance for the patient.
Therapeutic principles of the conservative orthopaedic means are described with special emphasis on the need of an adequate height of the aide and the foot position.
Casting and the application of Botulinun toxine are described having a major side effect of muscle weakening.
A combination of the different procedures, surgical interventions included, need to be selected for each patient offering the best management for each individual problem.
Still's disease was originally described as one form of rheumatoid arthritis in children beginning with fever and other systemic symptoms.
In rare cases it may also begin in the adult and is then referred to as adult-onset Still's disease.
The diagnostic criteria include typical rash, arthralgias, bouts of fever, and leukocytosis, as well as lymphadenopathy or splenomegaly, liver dysfunctions, non-infectious angina, and absence of rheumatoid factor and antinuclear antibodies.
We report two adult patients with longstanding disease whose exanthema guided us to the correct diagnosis.
The rash is a finding with high sensitivity.
It is characterized by red macules with distinct borders and is evanescent.
During an acute flare of the rash, gentle friction induces erythematous, isomorphic (Koebner) phenomena, which, as we describe here for the first time, may persist longer than the remainder of the fleeting rash.
Objective: Patients in a surgical intensive care unit (ICU) have a high incidence of nosocomial infections which often lead to septic shock and death.
Since calculated antibiotic treatment is often difficult, it was recommended to obtain routine nose/throat swabs in order to have a better idea of the causative agent when a systemic inflammatory response occurs in a given patient.
Methods: In 1435 patients of our cardio-surgical ICU, routine nose/throat swabs were taken three times a week and tested for micro-organisms and resistance to antibiotics.
Of these 86 patients developed clinical signs of systemic inflammation, and additional blood cultures were obtained.
Antibiotic treatment was achieved to cover the microbes from the nose/throat swabs, or a calculated dosage was given to patients whose swabs had tested negative.
Results: Of the 86 patients with systemic inflammation, 29 had blood cultures positive for microbes.
Of these 29 patients, 18 received a calculated antibiotic coverage based on their positive nose/throat cultures prior to the return of the blood cultures from the lab.
However, in only 11 of the 18 patients were routine swabs and blood cultures positive with the same microbes.
While positive routine swabs are quite specific for sepsis when there is a systemic inflammatory response, routine swabs are not a suitable screening tool due to their low sensitivity.
Conclusions: Routine nose/throat swabs led to earlier specific antibiotic treatment in only 22% of our patients with clinical signs of systemic inflammation.
In addition, in almost 40% of the cases organisms detected in the routine swabs and blood cultures were not identical.
As a result, we feel that routine swabs are only of limited value in instituting earlier, specific antibiotic treatment in septic patients.
The influence of defensivity, measured by validity scales of personality inventories (MMPI-K, FPI-R, GIESSEN-Test) on test results and psychotherapy outcome was studied in 309 patients treated with inpatient client-centered therapy.
In general, psychotherapy patients exhibited low defensivity.
25% of patients, who denied psychopathology at admission, did so at discharge and to some extent at follow-up, demonstrating an "especially good outcome" (means).
Relative improvement (effect sizes), however, was significantly diminished in psychopathology scales and significantly enlarged in validity scales.
- Results are discussed with regard to prior hypotheses about the influence of defensivity.
In our study we tested 2 different rapid assays for cardiac troponin t (TropT-rapid assay, diagnostic cut-off 0,2 ng/ml and TropTsensitive-rapid assay, diagnostic cut-off 0,1 ng/ml) in 75 chest pain patients.
Additional to the emergency ECG (3-lead) we acquired a 12-lead ECG.
The TropT-rapid assay showed a sensitivity of 11% (specifity 94,3%).
The TropT sensitive-rapid assay showed a sensitivity of 62% (specifity 100%).
Despite the great number of publications during the last 10 years concerning the indication, technique and results of operative treatment of acetabular fractures, conservative treatment still has an important role when considering the therapeutic possibilities.
Because of the modern techniques of radiological imaging and improvement of diagnostic facilities, a more defined indication for treatment becomes possible.
Conventional X-rays, completed by special projections like the Ala and Obturator view, and a CT scan allow determination of the fracture type (the Letournel/Judet classification or the AO classification).
The most suitable treatment can then be adapted to the individual circumstances of the patient, i. e., age, general condition and overall severity of traumatic impairment.
Determination of the intact part of the weight-bearing dome is important in selecting the most adequate therapeutic procedure.
The larger the intact roof arc, the better the prognosis.
Together with the X-ray controls following axial and facultative lateral extentions, the indication for conservative treatment can be confirmed.
Early active motion of the injured limb, followed by walking exercises with partial weight-bearing, are important aspects of nonoperative treatment.
Conservative treatment is recommended in non-displaced fractures or in fractures with little displacement, transverse fractures of the lower region or severely comminuted acetabular fractures with no possibility of reconstruction.
Our clinical and radiological follow-up of 97 patients with acetabular fractures from the years 1981-1990 showed that the majority were treated conservatively (approx.
The functional result after an average observation period of more than 70 months was good or excellent (based on the Merle d'Aubigné score).
We feel it is important to look at operative and conservative treatment of acetabular fractures as two complementary non-competitive therapeutic methods.
The choice of treatment should be based on an exact diagnosis considering fracture type, the individual circumstances of the patient, and application of the necessary diagnostic facilities.
Conservative treatment can lead to excellent long-term results.
Problem There is a great need to expand current knowledge of the various functional capacity measurements used in the rehabilitation of chronic low back pain (CLBP) patients.
The literature on these patients reports that mobility, endurance, trunk strength and lifting capacity decrease during the process of chronicity.
Chronically disabled patients appear to have lower functional capacity than asymptomatic persons.
Methods Our study group consisted of 90 disabled CLBP patients (44 female, 46 male; average age 42 years) who underwent a multidisciplinary 8-week daily treatment program of functional restoration with behavioral support (instruction, endurance training, strength exercises, behavioral and treatment to facilitate return to work therapy).
Initially these patients where compared with 107 asymptomatic persons (44 female, 63 male, average age 41 years).
The patients were investigated before and after treatment, and at intervals of 6 and 12 months.
The reliability of the functional measurements was evaluated by interrater comparison.
Physical assessment included a medical examination (mainly diagnosis of radicular or nonradicular pain), changes in the lumbar spine revealed by X-ray studies according to Herron and Turner [50], rating of physical impairment according to Waddell [117], flexibility, length of hamstrings muscles (SLR), test of power and endurance of trunk movement by standardized exercises according to the Swiss group of Spring [102] and isokinetic measurements (LIDO Back), tests of lifting capacity (LIDO Lift), and (in part) of general endurance on a cycle ergometer (CASE 15 Marquette).
Results Physical findings showed that mobility was reduced substantially in patients suffering from back pain due to reduced SLR (shortened hamstrings) and decreased spinal mobility.
Patients also demonstrated significant reductions in their ability to perform lifting tasks in comparison to healthy individuals.
The results of trunk flexion showed no significant differences between patients and the control group, whereas the ability to perform trunk extension was much better in the control group.
In principle we found the same results with isokinetic measurements as in the exercises without machines.
Cardiovascular endurance was also much better in the control group than it was in the back pain patients.
At the end of the treatment program all physical deficits were improved significantly.
In many cases performance was comparable with that of the control group.
With time, however, training effects gradually decreased.
The success of treatment (return to work, absence from work, pain reduction, use of medical care) was independent of the functional status of the patients before and after treatment.
Conclusion Study results showed that physical capacity in disabled patients with low back pain is substantially reduced in comparison to persons who do not suffer from back pain.
The only exception was in trunk flexor strength and endurance, in which measurements did not differ between the patients and the control group.
However, even CLBP- patients with long-term pain and severe physical illness can successfully improve their physical condition by participating in an active treatment program.
Back extensor muscle training has to be included in physical therapy.
Because of loss of condition during the time after treatment, regular monitoring of patients and their home training programs is necessary.
Overall, treatment of CLBP has to include physical training and psychosocial treatment to achieve satisfactory results.
The dynamic behavior of the ossicular chain is very complex and is frequency-dependent.
To date, this has still not been fully investigated or understood.
There remains a lack of measurement procedures to pick up the motion of the ossicles and ear drum simultaneously with sufficient resolution.
The presented paper reports simultanous measurements with laser-Doppler vibrometry at two points of the ossicular chain of cadaver specimens.
Motions not observed were derived using mechanical simulation models on a computer and then evaluating appropriate mathematical equations.
Using a sound stimulus, the displacement velocities of the umbo and stapes footplate were measured, and the corresponding transfer functions were derived by Fourier transform.
Results were used for verification of the computer models.
In the current investigations these models were refined and allow for the detailed investigation of the dynamic behavior of the ossicular chain, facilitating the optimal design of passive and active middle-ear implants.
Problem: Postoperative nausea and vomiting remains an important problem.
Many risk factors have been identified; however, the importance of postoperative analgesic technique and patient expectation remain poorly defined.
Reactive oxygen species (ROS) are probably not only unintended, toxic side-products of oxygen metabolism in mammalian cells, they also have several important physiologic functions including antimicrobial killing, regulation of cellular proliferation and growth, and regulation of vascular tone.
ROS are generated within the vessel wall by several mechanisms, including a vascular type of a NAD(P)H oxidase.
ROS formation can be stimulated by mechanical stress, environmental factors, the peptide angiotensin II, cytokines, native low-density lipoproteins (LDL), and in the presence of catalytic metal ions.
Their ability to modify LDL, react with endothelial-derived nitric oxide subsequently forming peroxynitrite, and amplify the expression of various genes important for leukocyte recruitment within the arterial wall are the basis of the oxidant injury theory of atherosclerosis.
In animal studies, antioxidant therapy (probucol, butylated hydroxytoluene, N',N'-diphenylendiamide, vitamin E, superoxide dismutase) have been successfully used to prevent fatty streak formation, and to restore impaired nitric oxide-dependent vasorelaxation.
In man, antioxidant therapy (e.g., supplementation with vitamin E) clearly increased the resistance of LDL to oxidative modification.
Case-controlled and prospective clinical studies suggest a relation between baseline antioxidant plasma levels and/or antioxidant supplementation and risk of cardiovascular events.
In one secondary prevention trial (randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled), vitamin E supplementation reduced significantly the risk for non-fatal myocardial infarctions.
Before general recommendations can be made, results of further large-scale trials should be awaited.
A 36-year old man suffered an isolated head injury with a fracture of the skull, epidural and subdural hematomas as well as brain contusion (Abbreviated Injury Scale (AIS): 5 points).
The hematomas were evacuated by craniotomy.
Because of high intracranial pressure (ICP) a barbiturate coma was necessary.
Additionally, the patient demonstrated acute lung injury (ARDS) due to pneumonia 8 days after trauma.
The patient recovered slowly and was transferred to neurorehabilitation on day 57 after injury.
During the following 12 months the patient developed a significant deficit of hip motion (extension/flexion: right: 0 °/10 °/20 °, left: 0 °/10 °/30 °; external/internal rotation: right and left: <5 °/0 °/<5 °; abduction/adduction: right: 10 °/0 °/25 °, left: 10 °/0 °/10 °).
X-rays and CT-scanning revealed severe heterotopic ossification (HO) of both hips with ancylosis (Brooker type IV).
Resection of HO was carried out in a two stage procedure using Smith-Petersen approach.
The prophylaxis for recurrence of HO included preoperative single-dose radiation (8 Gy) and postoperative treatment with indomethacin (150 mg per day).
The patient revealed 15 (left hip) and 12 (right hip) months after surgery the following range of hip movement: extension/flexion: right: 5 °/0 °/90 °, left: 5 °/0 °/100 °; external/internal rotation: right: 20 °/0 °/30 °, left: 20 °/0 °/20 °; abduction/adduction: right: 30 °/0 °/40 °, left: 30 °/0 °/40 °.
No recurrence of HO was observed in x-ray.
The patient is able to work in his profession as farmer.
Gastric teratomas are rare and mostly benign.
They frequently become evident as a palpable abdominal mass.
A malignant, aggressive solid tumor must be excluded.
We present a 6-month-old male infant with a history of bleeding of the upper gastrointestinal tract.
After in toto excision the histopathology was that of a benign gastric teratoma.
Our method of reading the diagnosis and the subsequent therapy are described.
The aim of this prospective study was to assess the clinical and prognostic relevance of patent foramen ovale - in contrast to risk factors for atherosclerosis and cardioembolic sources - in 208 patients with cerebral ischemic events.
All patients underwent neurological examination (Doppler, CT, NMR) as well as transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography.
A patent foramen ovale was found in 75 patients (36%).
With regard to risk factors for atherosclerosis patients with closed resp.
patent foramen ovale revealed significant differencies for age, hypertension, diabetes and use of oral contraceptives.
Cardioembolic sources showed significant differencies for atrial fibrillation and atrial septal aneurysm.
Multivariate analysis of risk factors for atherosclerosis and cardioembolic sources revealed hypertension and diabetes as age dependant risk factors in patients with closed foramen ovale.
In patients with patent foramen ovale the use of oral contraceptives was found as an independant risk factor for cerebral ischemic event.
Patients >60 years with cerebral ischemic events had more often a closed foramen ovale.
Dependant on age patients with closed foramen ovale showed a higher frequency of hypertension and diabetes.
In addition these patients revealed more often atrial fibrillation.
Patients with patent foramen ovale had fewer risk factors for atherosclerosis or cardioembolic sources but presented more frequent the use of oral contraceptives or atrial septal aneurysm.
A retrospective study of 86 motorcycle accidents that occurred in the year 1992 is reported.
Examination of the case histories supplemented by telephone conversations yielded the following results: 90.7% of our patients were male and their average age was 28.8 years; the age group between 25 and 30 years was the most frequently involved (27.9%).
Most motorcycle accidents happened during weekend trips out in the summertime.
Special injury patterns were found for injuries of the upper and the lower extremity.
Lower extremity injuries (46%), and especially open tibia fractures (19.7%), were among the most common injuries sustained by motorcyclists in crashes.
Injuries of the upper extremity most frequently took the form of fracture of the distal radius (18.8%).
The average stay in our hospital was 35.4 days.
In 23.4% of cases the patients had to change their job after the accident.
More than half the crashes happened with motorcycles with between 500 and 750 cc stroke volume.
Over a third (34.5%) of the patients had held their driving licences for more than 8 years.
A plea is made for more preventive measures, such as better driving instruction, better road conditions and legislative changes, against motorcycle crashes.
From the aspects of cost and the rate of complications it is reasonable to strive for a surgical treatment as soon as possible after the crash.
Reflex sympathetic dystrophy (RSD) is a syndrome affecting an extremity after a minor trauma or operation.
At the moment there is no consensus about the pathogenesis of RSD.
In 1942 Paul Sudeck suggested that the signs and symptoms of RSD may be provoked by an exaggerated inflammatory response to injury or operation of an extremity.
His theory found no disciples, as most physicians believe that RSD is initiated by an hyperactive sympathetic system.
We performed various clinical and experimental investigations, including the effects of antiinflammatory treatment.
The results of these studies support the theory of Paul Sudeck.
Erectile failure after radical prostatectomy is a common postoperative disorder.
However, nerve-sparing technique provides in about 50-60 % erections sufficient for sexual intercourse.
Damage to the cavernous nerves or vascular injuries are responsible for erectile dysfunction.
Alprostadil is most commonly used for self-injection monotherapy or in combination with other vasoactive drugs.
Intraurethral administration of alprostadil failed to reproduce promising early results.
The oral drug Sildenafil showed to be effective in patients with partial erections, however, it failed to work after non nerve-sparing radical prostatectomy.
Negative pressure devices and penile prosthesis can be considered as alternative therpeutic options.
Autologous N. suralis transplantation during radical prostatectomy might further improve erection rates in the near future.
Pregnancy causes substantial changes in the cardiovascular system: cardiac output (40%-50%) and blood volume (40%) increase whereas systemic peripheral resistance and arterial pressure decrease.
The rise in progesterone and estrogen levels accompanying pregnancy stimulates the renin-angiotension-aldosterone system.
Increased prostaglandin production follows renin activation; simultaneously, the arterial vessels show diminished angiotension sensitivity.
The result is pronounced vasodilatation.
Heart disease remains the most important nonobstetric cause of maternal death.
The physiological changes in the cardiovascular system during pregnancy influence cardiac diseases in different ways.
Pregnancy, labor, and delivery appear to be well tolerated in gravidae with an atrial septal defect, ventricular septal defect, and patents ductus arteriosus.
Sometimes congestive heart failure occurs and appropriate medical therapy is necessary.
Pregnant women with uncorrected cyanotic congenital heart disease (Eisenmenger's syndrome, tetralogy of Fallot) constitute a high-risk group because of right ventricular insufficiency and hypoxic attacks.
The consequences for anaesthesia in parturients with congenital heart disease are discussed.
The symptoms of acquired mitral or aortic stenosis are aggravated by the physiological changes in the cardiovascular system during pregnancy; the clinical symptoms of valve insufficiency are ameliorated by vasodilatation.
Peripartum cardiomyopathy clinically shows similar features to idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
The basis of treatment is the same as that of congestive heart failure, with the therapeutic spectrum ranging from diet to heart transplantation.
Women with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy tolerate pregnancy, labor, and delivery surprisingly well.
Vaginal delivery is possible, but epidural anaesthesia is contraindicated.
Hypertensive disorders associated with pregnancy are classified into three groups: chronic, treatment, and preeclamptic hypertension.
Whereas chronic and transient hypertension do not affect the outcome of pregnancy appreciably, pre-eclampsia presents a potential danger to mother and fetus.
Pre-eclamptic hypertension is accompanied by low cardiac output and plasma volume.
An upregulation of angiotension receptors enhances vascular reactivity, with the consequence of high peripheral resistance.
For antihypertensive therapy hydralazine, -methyldopa, and magnesium sulfate are the drugs of choice.
A generalised recommendation of anaesthesia for the pre-eclamptic gravida cannot be made because both general and epidural anaesthesia have risks of severe side effects.
CT with multiplanar reconstruction of the jaws (DentaScan) is the method of choice for the radiographic assessment of the mandible and maxilla.
It is instrumental in delineating the relationship between bony lesions and the adjacent anatomy.
Therefore, this technique allows precise evaluation of the intricate details of the oral cavity.
Using it, distinct characterization of pathology including infectious, metabolic, congenital and neoplastic lesions can be obtained.
The histopathology of bone marrow in primary myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) is described, with reference to the FAB classification.
Variants such as hypoplastic, thrombocythemic and fibrotic MDS are recognized from their histopathology and must be incorporated in the FAB classification.
The clinical significance of hypoplastic, thrombocythemic and fibrotic variants is illustrated by the survival rates and leukemic transformation in these patients.
Histopathological classification according to the FAB system corresponds with cytological classification, as proven by the distribution of the subtypes, blood values, leukemic transformation rates and survival times.
Finally it is even possible to elaborate a prognostic score for survival based on histological features of diagnostic biopsies, which emphasizes the importance of histopathological examination of bone marrow in MDS patients.
A 58-year-old man developed an extensive pilomatrical carcinoma in the left axilla.
Clinically, a squamous cell carcinoma was suspected.
Histological examination revealed the presence of proliferating basaloid cells with many atypical mitoses and mass necrosis infiltrating into the subcutaneous tissue.
The tumor was removed by micrographic surgery with a 2 cm safety margin.
Histological examination of 2 regional lymph nodes as well as further diagnostic procedures ruled out metastases.
We review the clinical and histopathological differences between pilomatricoma and pilomatrical carcinoma, as well as the published cases of the malignant variant.
Introduction: Recent studies evaluating lay people and health care professionals about their process-quality checking the carotid pulse demonstrated poor diagnostic accuracy and more time needed than suggested in international guidelines for CPR.
So far there was no scientifically prooved data about the quality of checking the breathing.
Study objective was the evaluation of the  effectiveness of checking the breathing in  an emergency situation with four different groups: lay people (L), EMT /Paramedics (E), medical students (M), physicians (P).
Taking into account the increase in worldwide human migration, leprosy is of growing importance in the differential diagnosis of dermatological diseases encountered in Central Europe.
We report on the case of a young man from Ghana who developed hypopigmented maculae and plaques on his trunk and proximal limbs.
The diagnosis of lepromatous leprosy could be made in consideration of the histological pattern of infiltrating leucocytes and detection of numerous acid-fast mycobacteria on skin biopsy.
The results of the physical examination as well as routine laboratory and immunological parameters were consistent with this form of leprosy.
Due to glucose-6-phosphate-dehydrogenase deficiency, treatment with dapsone was contraindicated.
With high-dose rifampicin and clofazimine therapy, the skin changes cleared over the course of 11 months following a leprosy reaction type II (erythema nodosum leprosum) that developed during a phase of discontinued therapy due to low patient compliance.
In the last few years two placebo controlled studies (European Cooperative Acute Stroke Study and National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke Study) analyzed the effect of systemic thrombolytic therapy with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) in acute hemispheric stroke.
Both studies showed a positive longtime effect for the rt-PA treated patients.
The number of symptomatic intracerebral hemorrhage was higher in the rt-PA treated groups.
The results determine possible clinical or neuroradiological predictors of intracerebral hemorrhage associated with rt-PA therapy.
The role of enteroviral myocardial infection in the development of dilated cardiomyopathy could only be substantiated after the introduction of molecular biological techniques (polymerase chain reaction, in-situ hybridization) in virological diagnostics of dilated cardiomyopathy.
By using histological and especially immunohistological techniques for the detection of myocardial inflammation in patients with the tentative clinical diagnosis of dilated cardiomyopathy, a differentiation between inflammatory cardiomyopathy and idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy on the basis of the WHO classification 1995 (31) was made.
Inflammatory cardiomyopathy is defined by myocarditis in association with cardiac dysfunction and is diagnosed by established histological and especially immunohistological techniques.
The combination of histological, immunohistological, and molecularbiological techniques enabled a subgroup analysis of the incidence of enteroviral myocardial RNA in patients with inflammatory cardiomyopathy in comparison to patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy.
The Intended-Dynamic Group Therapy, until the unity almost unknown in West-Germany, represented the most important form of therapy in the former GDR.
Its development, its conception of the relevant relationship between group-dynamic and psychoanalytic concepts and in particular its reception of psychoanalytic concepts are discussed.
This raises the question of defining the position of this therapy form with the focus on the controverse about its proximity to psychoanalytic therapeutical concepts.
Even if we take into account that in the GDR there were very reduced possibilities to articulate psychoanalytic and particularly drive concepts, in our view the Intended-Dynamic Group Therapy cannot be considered as a psychoanalytical form of therapy.
It represents a specific therapeutical development of the former GDR which is strongly oriented at social norms.
It is first of all oriented at the attitude change reached by the group, that means, at the manifest, conscious behaviour of the patient and therefore focusses at the normative level of behaviour regulation in groups in the sense of interactional group therapy.
The authors view this form of therapy as a "historical compromise" in the field of psychotherapy under the circumstances of the former GDR and in this way they take into account both its advantages and its weaknesses.
In a prospective study of central fractures of the talus, radiological data (plain radiography, CT, MRI) were scrutinized in terms of correlation with histological findings (biopsy taken at time of screw removal).
The study looked at nine fractures in eight patients aged 14 - 48 years.
There was one fracture of Hawkins type I, one fracture of type II, four fractures of type III, and three corpus fractures.
All were operated on within 24 h after injury; seven had screw fixation, two had adaptation with K wires.
The patients were kept non-weight-bearing for 14 - 53 weeks.
Duration of follow-up was 2 years or more in all but one patient.
In the final radiograph the talus was intact in four patients, while four showed a partial avascular collapse; in one patient, a partial collapse was doubtful.
Histology taken 16 - 52 weeks after injury showed osteocyte-free original bone in all cases, with deposition of new bone varying in extent.
Hawkins sign was partially positive in six patients, positive in one, and negative in one.
Decalcification as well as fracture healing can be better followed by CT than by plain radiography.
MRI appeared normal in five patients, partially pathological in two, and abnormal in one.
A positive Hawkins sign and normal signal behavior can be seen as prognostically favorable signs.
However, in the case of a central talus fracture, even with a favorable course osteonecrosis of at least a part of the talus with gradual replacement by new bone occurred.
Vascularization of the central talus seems to be disturbed more frequently than is reflected radiologically.
Purpose: To assess the value of functional magnetic resonance urography for the noninvasive postoperative evaluation of renal transplants.
Methods: A saturation inversion projection sequence allows the selective imaging of strongly T 1 weighted signal from the MR contrast agent.
A coronal slab leads to images comparable to conventional urography which can be acquired as a sequence with four images per minute.
Results: 15 patients with urologic questionable findings after renal transplantation were studied.
FMRU revealed in 6 patients normal findings, in 6 moderate dilatation of the renal pelvis without any urodynamic relevant obstruction.
3 pathologic findings, ureteral leak, ureteropelvic-junction obstruction and ureteral stenosis were diagnosed and consequently surgically treated.
The imaging quality in all studies was diagnostic and urologically relevant.
Conclusion: FMRU can be used as a noninvasive technique for the assessment of renal transplant in cases with suspicion of complication in the excretory system.
The infection after intramedullary nailing is a severe complication, which is hard to eradicate.
The results of reaming the intramedullary canal after removal of the infected nail were evaluated in our investigation.
From 1984 to 1991 fifty-five patients with infected intramedullary nails of the lower extremity were included in this trial.
Twenty-one patients had an infection of the femur.
Thirty-four patients had a primary infection of the nail, twenty-one patients had multiple operations with periods of infection prior to nailing.
All patients had signs of a chronic osteitis and sinus formation.
At the time of the follow-up the success of the procedure was evaluated regarding recurrence of infection, range of motion of the extremity and patient comfort.
The mean time of observation was 10,1  +/-  4,9 years.
All patients with initially infected intramedullary nails had no recurrence of the infection, compared to 62 % of those with multiple operations prior to nailing.
At the time of the follow up all fractures had healed.
85 % of the patients performed full weight bearing.
32 patients (91 %) had good or excellent ROM of the adjacent joints.
The discussion about the therapy of the posterior cruciate ligament persists.
Conservative treatment, augmented repair, and reconstruction with autografts are discussed.
From 1993 to 1997, 49 patients with posterior cruciate ligament rupture had repair Trevira ligament augmentation of 3 mm.
There were 21 isolated and 28 combined ruptures.
In 5 cases bony avulsions were refixed by screw or additional hook plate.
Investigation of 36 patients, in 15 cases with isolated ligamentous ruptures was made.
Osseous avulsion had good results in all cases.
Isolated posterior cruciate ligament rupture showed good stability in 7 of 15 cases and instability of 2 + in 8 cases.
The medial range Lysholm score was 76.8 (+/- 21.6), the OAK score showed 2 very good and 5 good results, 3 fair and 5 bad results.
Using the IKDC score led to 3 very good and 4 good results, 2 fair and 6 bad results.
Using subjective criteria, 10 patients described results as very good or good, 2 fair and 3 bad.
Posterior cruciate ligament rupture with additional knee injury or fracture of the leg showed bad results in 60 % of cases, and good or fair results in only 40 %.
We think augmented repair of fresh injury of the posterior cruciate ligament can be used as an alternative therapy to reconstruction with autograft.
Through cooperation between the German Contact Dermatitis Research Group (DKG) and the Information Network of Departments of Dermatology (IVDK), results of standardized patch tests performed by the participating centres are centrally recorded in Germany.
For this study, data from 24 departments of dermatology (19678 patients) were evaluated retrospectively and separately for 1995 and 1996.
With decreasing frequency, nickel, fragrance mix, balsam of peru, and thimerosal yielded positive reactions most often; suprisingly high numbers of positive reactions were also seen with amerchol L-101 and palladium.
Differentiated lists of allergens were compiled for 1995, referring to subgroups of patients (defined by gender, age, localization of eczema, geographical region, occupation, sensitization) and particular problems.
In men, percentages of positive reactions were markedly lower for nickel, fragrance mix and balsam of peru than in women.
Younger patients reacted more often to thimerosal and older ones to topical medical preparations.
Medical allergens were also often positive in patients with leg eczema, whereas occupational allergens were found more frequently in patients with hand eczema.
A comparison of positive reactions obtained in distinct geographical regions was problematic because of differences between test populations.
The spectrum of allergens found in officeworkers was similar to that of the whole test population.
Patients with positive reactions to nickel and fragrance mix had more positive reactions to unrelated allergens than the total test population.
Sex- and age-adjusted frequencies of sensitization revealed a decrease in reactions to nickel and an increase in reactions to mercury allergens from 1995 to 1996.
The clinical relevance of mercury reactions was often not apparent.
Differentiated lists of allergens can be used to improve the quality of diagnostic and prophylactic procedures in allergic contact dermatitis.
Intramuscular injections of botulinum toxin (BT) induce a localized, long-lasting paresis of the target muscle that can be graded by the BT dose administered and that is free of major side effects.
With this profile, BT can be used for symptomatic treatment of various disorders caused by pathological muscle hyperactivities.
These disorders occur frequently in patients in institutions for neurological rehabilitation.
They are difficult to treat with conventional methods, can cause major suffering and induce substantial costs for our health care system.
In the present study we therefore sought to delineate the use of BT in rehabilitative neurology.
Regardless of the etiology of the particular muscle hyperactivity syndrome, five main indication groups are identified: (1) improvement of function of the hyperactive muscles; (2) relief of pain in the hyperactive muscles; (3) improvement of patient care; (4) avoidance of sequelae in joints, tendons, ligaments, and teeth; (5) various special indications.
Myocardial infarction shows a circadian pattern with a maximum in the early morning hours.
In patients with sleep-related breathing disorders (SRBD), it is assumed that apnea-associated changes of hemodynamics, blood gases, and rheology lead to a higher frequency of myocardial infarction during sleep.
This investigation analyzes the circadian pattern of myocardial infarction in patients with and without SRBD.
Currently no serological marker for the monitoring of uveal melanoma and its metastases is available.
The novel tumorassociated antigen Melanoma inhibitory activity (MIA) is expressed in the uveal melanoma and it's metastatic lesions.
Persistent atrial fibrillation (AF) is associated with shortened action potential duration (APD) and reduced atrial refractoriness.
Remodeling of ion currents responsible for AP morphology has been proposed as a major mechanism in persistent AF.
In the present study we investigated the activity of the cardiac L-type Ca2+ channel and the mRNA transcription of the cardiac L-type Ca2+ channel subunits in patients with persistent AF compared to patients in sinus rhythm (SR).
Right atrial appendages of 10 patients in SR and of 5 patients with AF were used for myocyte isolations to record L-type Ca2+ currents (ICa,L) by the patch-clamp technique.
Right atrial appendages of 16 patients in SR and of 5 patients with AF served as sources for determining the mRNA expression of the L-type Ca2+ channel 1c-, 2/-, a-, and b/c-subunits by semiquantitative RT-PCR.
ICa,L density was reduced by 70% (p < 0.001) in AF patients compared to the sinus rhythm group.
Cell sizes, expressed as cell capacitance, were identical in both groups.
mRNA expressions of the 1c-subunit and the b/c-subunits were reduced in AF patients by 18.9% (p < 0.05) and 77.7% (p < 0.005), respectively, while mRNA transcriptions of the 2/- and the a-subunits were not significantly different between SR and AF patients.
A decrease in the availability of functional L-type Ca2+ channels in AF patients, due to reduced 1c-subunit and substantial lack of b/c-subunit transcription seems to contribute to the shortening pf APD and refractory periods in AF, thereby favoring increased atrial excitation rate and perpetuation of AF.
34 patients aged 3 months to 20years underwent transcatheter-occlusion of their patent ductus arteriosus with detachable coils (Cook).
Eight patients had a residual ductus after previous implantation of a Rashkind-occluder; 7 patients had various other cardiac malformations in addition.
Only 6 patients had a large ductus with a diameter between 3 and 4 mm; all had systolic-diastolic murmurs.
All other patients had ductus-diameters below 3 mm; three of them had systolic-diastolic murmurs, 17 had systolic murmurs, and 8 patients had no murmur at all.
The ductus was closed in 24 patients using artrial access only, in 6 patients via a venous, and in 4 patients both via venous and arterial catheterization.
One coil was used in 23 patients, 2 coils in 9, and 3 coils in 2 patients.
There were no complications of the intervention.
Within 24 hours 31 patients (93%) had complete closure of the ductus and 32 patients (94%) after 6 months.
Coil-embolisation of the persistent ductus is a quick, safe and cheap method to close a ductus and has clear advantages compared to an operation.
The volume of preoperative screening investigations for outpatient anaesthesia ranges from few, selectively ordered investigations to extensive routine diagnostic procedures.
It seem appropriate to reevaluate benefit and efficacy of routine preoperative assessment programs.
The purpose of preoperative diagnostic is to assess the risk of anaesthesia and surgery for the patient.
As shown by a number of studies, preoperative screening investigations seldom disclose new pathological findings of clinical relevance.
Abnormal laboratory results in otherwise healthy patients rarely alter the anaesthetic management of the patient and are not related to perioperative complications.
Extensive use of costly diagnostic procedures considerably increases health care budgets.
A more selective approach to order preoperative investigations promises considerable savings.
To achieve costeffective evalulation an efficient organisation of properative assessment must be established to avoid costly delay and on-day-of-surgery-cancellations.
There is no medicolegal obligation to perform routine diagnostic testing.
The anaesthetist must be sufficiently informed in time to assess the perioperative risk of the patient and to alter anaesthetic management as necessary.
According to the presented studies a clinical history and a thorough physical examination represent an effective method of screening for the presence of disease.
Careful medical history evaluation and physical examination can avoid extensive investigations in apparently healthy individuals and the latter should only be ordered if indicated.
The botryoid odontogenic cyst (BOC) is considered a rare multilocular variant of the lateral periodontal cyst.
The origin of the BOC can be seen in aberrant odontogenic tissue.
The BOC is found especially in the premolar region of the mandible, as well as in the frontal region of the maxilla of patients aged between 60 and 70 years.
Most of the 11 published articles of BOC have shown high rates of recurrence.
Histopathologically the BOC is marked by multilocular cysts lined by a thin, nonkeratinized epithelium.
Clusters of glycogen-rich epithelial cells may be noted in nodular thickenings of the cyst lining.
For the clinician, the differentiation of the BOC from the keratocyst and ameloblastoma is relevant.
One case of a large BOC (65-year-old male, BOC regio 33-45, diameter 5 cm, radiographically and histologically multilocular) is presented with a review of the literature, including the therapeutic management, and the possible diagnostic criteria are discussed.
The immunohistochemically determined expression of cytokeratin (CK) 13 implicates the histogenetic origin of the BOC from the squamous epithelium of the oral cavity and excludes the origin from the small salivary glands.
The expression of CK 19 and the lack of expression of p53, as well as the higher proliferation rate of the basal epithelial cell layer by the BOC, may be useful for distinction between the keratocyst.
Within the framework of a study on vocational rehabilitation of the mentally ill, we examined 83 schizophrenic outpatients enrolled in a work therapy program.
The course of illness and rehabilitation was documented over a 3-year period by means of annual follow-up examinations.
The sample comprised 44 men and 39 women with an average age of 35 years (SD +/- 8,5).
The majority were chronically ill patients with a history of frequent and long psychiatric hospitalization.
After 3 years, 22% of the patients were integrated into the general labor market, 26% had sheltered employment, 23% were still in work therapy, and 29% were unemployed.
Besides the patients' subjective expectations, early introduction of rehabilitative measures and a favourable course of illness were found to be predictors of a successful rehabilitation leading to vocational integration.
Outpatient work therapy is a contemporary, effective organizational form of sociotherapy.
It may contribute to improved vocational competence and integration, reduced psychiatric hospitalization and stabilized psychopathology.
Objective: Based on personal observations the neuromuscular blocking potency of atracurium was supposed to be diminished in purulent intrathoracic diseases.
This hypothesis was tested in a prospective clinical trial.
Aim of study: Goal of this survey is to give an overview of anaesthesia for caesarean section in Germany.
Ultrasound contrast agent is used in color Doppler flow imaging for signal enhancement in perfused vessels.
We present our experience with its use in the head and neck area and the results obtained.
Up until now, 30 patients with carcinomas of the oral cavity or the maxillary sinus, tumors of the mandible and metastatic or inflammatory lymph nodes have been examined.
Conventional B-scan sonography was supplemented by non-contrast color Doppler flow imaging.
Depending on the indication, 2.5 g Levovist in bolus or 4 g fractionated was injected intravenously in a concentration of 300 or 400 mg/ml.
The administration of the contrast agent was tolerated by all patients without any side effects and in all cases led to a remarkable enhancement of the Doppler signals.
About 15 to 30 s after injection, an enhancement in perfused vessels was detected.
The fractioned injection of 4 g led to a lengthening of signal enhancement up to more than 10 min and to the possibility of examining more parts with a single application of contrast agent.
In 64% of the lymph nodes, vessels could only be identified with the administration of Levovist.
The general vessel topography could be better evaluated in 83% of the cases.
The lymph-node-supplying vessels were identified in 8 of 11 patients after the injection of contrast media.
Additional information, which was gained in 17 patients, increased the certainty of diagnosis or of the therapeutic concept.
In three cases, the examinations with the signal enhancer resulted in a change in therapy.
By applying signal enhancer in color Doppler sonography the fields of examination in the head and neck areas can be expanded.
Non-syndromic neurosensory recessive deafness (NSRD) is one of the most common human sensory disorders.
Mutations in the connexin 26 gene have been established as a major cause of inherited and sporadic non-syndromic deafness in different populations.
Laser-induced thermotherapy is an in situ ablation method for the local treatment of liver tumors.
The basic prerequisite for induction of adequate treatment volumes for clinical use was the development of a thermostable application system.
In an ex vivo test series, the specially developed application system (diffuser tip) with 5760 J had a higher thermic loading capacity than the Ringmode applicator with 4200 J, thus enabling the induction of significantly larger lesions with a volume of 7.6 cm3.
The results of a further in vivo test series demonstrated that the lesions were subject to a four-phase connective-tissue organization within a 6-month period.
Furthermore, the same laser energy (4200 J) was associated with a significantly lower lesion volume of 2.5 cm3 in the in vivo than in the ex vivo test series.
The influence of liver perfusion on the inducible lesion volume was examined in a further animal experimental study.
By temporarily interrupting hepatic blood perfusion (Pringle's maneuver) during laser application, the effective volume could be increased to 50.3 cm3 (P < 0.01) using an optical beam splitter.
These results show that the technical prerequisites for reliable clinical application of laser-induced thermotherapy have been fulfilled.
A total of 222 urogenital specimens were investigated with a commercially available polymerase chain reaction (Amplicor test) for the direct detection of Chlamydia trachomatis.
The results were compared with those yielded by the conventional cell culture technique.
Using cell culture a urogenital C. trachomatis infection could be detected in 72 of 222 patients.
The Amplicor test yielded a positive result in 83.
Referred to the detection rate of the Amplicor test and that of the cell culture, sensitivity was 91.2% for the test sensitivity and 79.1% for the cell culture.
The specificity of both techniques was 100% when the specimens for which neither both nor either one of the tests gave positive results were considered.
In accordance with other studies, this study suggests that tests based on nucleic acid amplification will supersede cell cultures as the gold standard for the detection of C. trachomatis and also become the method of choice in routine diagnosis of urogenital chamydial infections.
Incidence and clinical significance of cardiopulmonary complications of acute cerebral lesions are still unclear.
Neurogenic pulmonary edema (NPE) is characterized as an acute, protein-rich lung edema occurring shortly after cerebral lesions associated with an acute rise of intracranial pressure.
NPE is infrequently diagnosed, usually in association with head trauma.
Pathophysiological mechanisms include a rise of the pulmonary vascular hydrostatic pressure either due to sympathetic innervation with pulmonary vasoconstriction or increased left-atrial pressure following systemic arterial hypertension or an increase in pulmonary capillary permeability.
In contrast to NPE, cardiac complications are frequently observed, most consistently in patients with subarachoid hemorrhage.
Typical ECG changes are repolarization abnormalities, similar to those observed in coronary heart disease, and cardiac arrhythmias.
The CK-MB may be slightly elevated; echocardiographic findings show a depressed left-ventricular function.
Pathological examination reveals myofibrillar necrosis.
Cardiac complications are explained with overactivity of the sympathetic innervation and high levels of circulating catecholamines.
For adequate treatment, close cardiac monitoring is required in all patients with acute cerebral lesions.
Benign, non-parasitic liver cysts are usually asymptomatic and found incidentally by abdominal ultrasound or CT scan.
We present the case of a 68-year-old patient who showed obstructive jaundice due to a hemorrhagic liver cyst compressing the choledochal duct.
Due to the location of the cyst in the porta hepatis with partial compression of central liver vessels and the meanwhile organized hematoma, operative therapy was preferred in order to prevent secondary complications such as portal vein thrombosis and to exclude a malignant neoplasm.
This review summarizes briefly pathophysiology, clinical definitions, pathogenesis, risk factors, diagnostic procedures and principles of therapy and prophylaxis of ischemic stroke.
Ischemic stroke is defined as a localized lack of cerebral perfusion mainly due to cardioembolic or arterial-embolic occlusion of cerebral arteries or hemodynamic or microangiographic reduction of cerebral blood flow.
We focused on pathophysiological mechanisms with potential clinical relevance as the role of oxygen and glucose concentration, the therapeutic time window, the role of excitatory neurotransmitters, Ca2+-influx, free radicals, and the development of ischemic brain edema.
Based on this data the need of an urgent initiation of diagnostic workup and therapy is emphasized.
This includes the early basic management with monitoring of blood pressure, ECG, oxygen and blood glucose concentration, and the balance of the water and electrolyte supply.
Since specific therapeutic and prophylactic interventions are based on an exact diagnosis with respect to the pathogenesis, the need of an urgent diagnostic workup including clinical examination, laboratory baseline, vascular ultrasound, cranial CT-scan, ECG, and echocardiography is emphazised.
Based on these results appropriate management of certain pathogenetic stroke subgroups is discussed.
New data about the effectiveness of basic care, treatment of edema, neuroprotective agents, and thrombolysis is presented.
Indications for the therapy with intravenous heparin, vitamin K-antagonists, antiplatelet drugs, and surgical procedures are summarized.
Longitudinal osteocutaneous defects of the sternal region including the caudal third were reconstructed in 15 patients during a 3-year period by using the "vertical (VRAM)- and transverse rectus abdominis muscle" (TRAM) flap.
The majority of the defects resulted from chronic osteomyelitis after previous cardiothoracic surgery or were due to former therapy of breast cancer.
Three VRAM/TRAM flaps were primarily transferred as free flaps with microvascular anastomosis in the axilla region.
Nine out of 12 pedicled VRAM or TRAM flaps required an additional microvascular anastomosis because of imminent venous or arterial insufficency ("supercharging").
Therefore, operative technique and operating time of the pedicled and free flap for reconstruction of longitudinal sternal defects are comparable.
Adequate reconstruction and rehabilitation was achieved in 11 cases.
In 2 patients revision and partial secondary defect coverage was required.
Two male patients died postoperatively due to their preexisting condition.
The introduction of joints in unilateral fixators enables these for multiple deformity corrections.
Lengthening and shortening is achieved by changing the length of the fixator telescope.
Axial corrections are performed by additive or subtractive techniques using uniplanar joints or by angulation procedures.
Translation is done by direct movements of the bone fragments or by metaphyseal "double angulation".
Derotation preferably is done as an acute procedure or in the "ring part" of a hybrid frame.
Unilateral fixators are used to correct and temporarily stabilize until the correction is held by the nintramedullary nail.
Pathomorphology in the preterm infant represents an interaction of morphological organ immaturity and neonatal management with their respective sequelae.
Background: Morphological changes in the corneal surface after PRK may result not only in refraction fluctuations and reduction in visual acuity, but also in changes of contrast sensitivity.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether PRK has an influence on contrast sensitivity with and without glare with a subsequent effect on the ability to drive cars.
Calcifying obliterative atherosclerosis isolated within the descending thoracic aorta causing subtotal vascular occlusion was associated with symptoms such as in aortic coarctation in a 56-year-old patient.
Remarkable in this unique case is the atypical and isolated manifestation of atherosclerotic disease within the thoracic aorta, as well as the tumorous extent of luminal calcification.
Differential diagnostic considerations had to include calcifying tumor of the aorta, remnants after aortitis or secondary calcified aortic dissection.
The osteoplastic frontal sinus surgery with obliteration of the sinus has been established in the therapy of frontal sinus diseases that can not be drainaged permanently or healed through an endonasal access.
The obliteration of the frontal sinus is endangered in cases of multiple fracturing of the posterior frontal sinus wall or if it has been destroyed by an inflammatory process.
In these problematic cases obliteration bears the danger of complications and cranialization of the frontal sinus is therefore the method of choice.
We review 8 patients who were operated on using the cranialization technique.
Indications for surgery were a combined fracture of the anterior and posterior frontal sinus wall (3), a pyocele of the front sinus with extensive destruction of the posterior wall (4) and a large osteoma of the posterior frontal sinus wall (1).
The frontal sinus was exposed through a coronal incision, the mucosa and the posterior wall were completely removed and the frontal sinus obliterated with fat tissue.
The anterior sinus wall was replaced after obliteration of the sinus or reconstructed with calvarian bone transplants.
The follow up period was 1.8 years (11 months to 8 years).
All patients underwent postoperatively a clinical ENT-examination and radiological assessment by CT-scan or MRI.
The overall functional and esthetic outcome was excellent.
There were no serious complications nor any recurrence.
The cranialization of the frontal sinus is a reliable and safe variation of the classical osteoplastic frontal sinus surgery with fat obliteration.
We present the case of an infant with Waterhouse-Friderichsen syndrome, in whom keloids developed at the sites of intracutanous bleeding within 6 months after the illness.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 7 (SCA7) belongs to the category of autosomal dominant cerebellar ataxias (ADCA).
The clinical picture is characterised by progressive ataxia and macular degeneration.
Other common signs are slow saccades, external ophthalmoplegia, and pyramidal tract signs.
The disease is caused by the expansion of an unstable CAG trinucleotide repeat in the gene for ataxin 7 on chromosome 3.
SCA7 is a rare disorder.
The first case in Germany was described only recently.
We report two additional patients, father and son, with the molecular genetic diagnosis of SCA7.
The father carries a trinucleotide expansion of 42 CAG repeats, the son 51.
Normal alleles range from 7 to 35 CAG repeats.
Both patients show the typical picture with progressive ataxia and macular degeneration.
We found a pronounced anticipation (earlier disease onset in subsequent generations), which is highly characteristic of CAG repeat disorders.
In the following contribution the under-proportional participation rate of older workers in vocational training is analysized.
Regarding the changes concerning the organiszation of vocational training to more job-integrated, self-directed and computerbased learning the consequences for training opportunities, motivation to learn and performance possibilities as well as institutional basic conditions to optimize the participation of elderly workers in further training are discussed.
Tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) is the most severe arbovirus disease transmitted by ticks.
The mortality of the central European form is 0.7-2%.
Active immunisation is recommended for endemic regions.
We report on 4 patients with TBE aquired in Middle-Hessen between 1994 and 1997 (2 in 1997).
After repeated CSF and serum testing the TBE-specific antibodies were found in all 4 cases.
In one case there was also evidence for a prior infection with borrelia burgdorferi.
The results of the initial CSF-analysis were atypical in 2 cases (high cell count of 136 cells/mm3, total protein up to 1.5 g/l).
The endemic region for TBE has expanded in northern direction into Middle-Hessen, a region in which Lyme borreliosis is also endemic.
Thus, true double infections are possible.
This and the initially frequently atypical CSF-findings make the differential diagnosis difficult.
Therefore, repetitive CSF and blood examinations are recommended.
Nedocromil sodium and cromolyn sodium are non-steroidal, anti-inflammatory drugs for the treatment of asthma.
Although they are chemically different, there are many similarities in their mechanism of action.
In provocation tests they have equal efficacy on some tests (allergen, exercise), but nedocromil sodium has greater effect on neuronal mechanisms such as So2 challenge.
Very few studies compared the two drugs.
In children, only one study was done, showing that twice daily nedocromil is as effective as four times daily cromolyn sodium.
Thus twice daily administration is one advantage of nedocromil, the other being proven effect of steroid- sparing, which has not been shown with cromolyn sodium.
Both drugs are recommended as first-line agents in mild persistent asthma.
Background: We evaluated in this retrospective study the impact of our diagnostic and therapeutic regimens - as illustrated by typical clinical pictures - on the frequency and prognostic values of postkeratoplasty complications in herpes eyes.
The evaluation of brain tumor recurrence and therapy-induced benign changes following surgery and/or irradiation is a diagnostic challenge for imaging methods based on either morphology (cCT/MRI) or function (SPECT/PET).
Current literature and the present data of our own patients demonstrate the diagnostic efficiency of IMT-SPECT and FDG-PET in the detection of recurrence and in-vivo grading.
Thirty-nine patients suspected of brain tumor recurrence at follow-up were studied by FDG-PET and IMT-SPECT.
Thirty-four of 39 patients showed recurrences; in 12 cases even a change in the grade of malignancy was observed.
All high-grade recurrences could be confirmed by either methods.
IMT-SPECT showed a higher sensitivity in detecting low-grade tumors at recurrence.
In contrast to IMT-SPECT, FDG-PET supports sufficient in-vivo grading.
Both methods can be used to differentiate between tumor recurrence and radionecrosis.
In conclusion the results of our study demonstrate the efficiency of IMT-SPECT and FDG-PET in confirming recurrences and determining the actual tumor grade.
A 22-year-old male presented with a submandibular cystic mass in the ENT Clinic of Berlin-Buch.
Histopathology revealed a dystopic papillary carcinoma in a thyroglossal duct cyst.
Worldwide only about 150 cases are known.
We describe our diagnostic and therapeutic procedures employed and included tumor excision, bilateral neck dissections and total thyroidectomy.
No abnormalities in the thyroid gland but a metastatic carcinoma was uncovered in an ipsilateral lymph node in the jugular foramen area.
A preoperative 99 Tc-thyroid scan and MRI study had not shown any evidence for a malignant tumor.
The therapeutic approach advocated in literature is controversial but the intraoperative findings in our patient supported our decision to choose a relatively radical but not mutilating therapy.
Transforming growth factor-1 (TGF-1) is a pleiotrophic growth factor in carcinogenesis and regulars multiple cell functions.
We wanted to evaluate the diagnostic meaning of TGF-1 plasma levels in patients with a biopsy proven prostate cancer.
The TGF-1 blood level was analysed in 394 patients.
In 242 patients (group I) the blood was taken before any prostate manipulation and biopsy.
The TGF-1 plasma concentrations were almost similar in the group of patients with a prostate cancer (n = 157) and patients with a benign prostate hyperplasia (n = 85; 14 258 pg/ml versus 14 658 pg/ml, SD 10 516 pg/ml).
In 152 patients the blood was taken 6-12 months after radical prostatectomy (group II).
There was no significant difference between the patients with a PSA-progress and without PSA-progress after.
Our results suggest that TGF-1 plasma levels can not be used to distinguish between patients with prostate cancer and benign prostate hyperplasia.
The aim of this study was to compare the psychological stress of patients with different forms of immediate type hypersensitivity and urticaria.
Moreover, the patients' motivation for different forms of psychological treatment was assessed and an indication for psychosocial support was defined.
228 consecutive inpatients with insect venom allergies (ins), food intolerance (food), drug hypersensitivities (dru) and urticaria (urt) were evaluated by validated questionnaires regarding psychological strain and motivation for psychosocial treatments.
Patients with food intolerance and urticaria showed significantly elevated psychological stress and higher motivation for psychosocial support as compared to those with insect venom allergies and drug intolerance.
Patient education was the favourite technique for the patients (food 78%, urt 57%, dru 24%, ins 17%), followed by relaxation treatment.
The most important predictors for the motivation were the wish for self-responsibility, a feeling of helplessness and social limitations.
If strong indication criteria are applied, psychosocial support is indicated in only small subgroups of each patient group.
In spite of that, the management of allergic disease should consider the potential need for psychosocial support.
The definition of endocrine disrupters is not very sharp.
At present all non-physiologic substances which bind to steroid receptors, are defined as endocrine disrupters of which the best studied are estrogenic in nature.
Many pesticides or insecticides or their metabolites have estrogenic activity and pollute our surface water.
Here they may cause severe estrogenization of aquatic life.
Only traces of these substances are demonstrable in drinking water.
On the other hand, weak estrogens present in plastic ware may be ingested by men and therefore be potentially harmful for human health.
On the other hand, many plants produce socalled'hyto-estrogens', particularly soy products are rich in phyto-estrogens but their high consumption in Asian populations are most likely the reason for reduced occurrence of breast cancer.
Many plant extracts used for human medication also contain phyto-estrogens and are beneficial in the treatment of climacteric complaints.
Hence, not all endocrine disruptors must be harmful to human health, in fact, some of them (clearly phyto-estrogens) may have beneficial effects.
Germany's new Protection against infection Act (Infektionsschutzgesetz) will take effect on January 1, 2001.
It will result in an increase of notifications on reportable infections.
Counties and states have to adjust the infrastructure of their reportable disease notification systems to meet the demands of the new legislation.
An increased demand for human resources at the non-medical staff level is anticipated.
Continuing education programs for medical and non-medical staff at public health offices are mandatory.
Physicians in private practice, hospitals and diagnostic laboratories and leaders of nursing homes are target groups for special information.
A timely review and epidemiological evaluation of all notifications forwarded by county health offices has to be performed at the state level.This is a prerogative for immediate response in case of non-localized increases in reported disease incidence.
The author advocates the development of an epidemiological rapid reaction scheme (epidemiological fire brigade) in which public health physicians at the county, state, and federal level cooperate in a gradual response to outbreak situations according to actual demand.
We report on an 8 year old boy and a 12 year old girl with intermittent peranal loss of blood and mucus, impaired defecation and recurrent abdominal pain.
On endoscopy isolated ulcers were seen in the rectum only, whereas the colonic mucosa appeared to be normal macroscopically and microscopically.
Biopsies from the borders of the ulcers revealed a hyperplasia of the lamina muscularis mucosae and a fibromuscular obliteration of the lamina propria mucosae.
These clinical, endoscopical and histological findings are characteristic for the solitary rectal ulcer syndrome.
Only 26 paediatric cases (age at diagnosis 6-9 years) have been published so far.
The interval from first symptoms to final diagnosis (mean: 3,7 years, range: 1 week to 9 years) is remarkably long in childhood cases.
Pathogenetically an internal rectal prolapse with secondary ischemic lesions is assumed.
There is no evidence of an association to inflammatory bowel disease.
The ulcers ars often resistant to different medical and surgical options.
Discussion: Pediatricians should be aware of the solitary rectal ulcer syndrome in order to make an earlier diagnosis and to prevent unnecessary diagnostic procedures and concerns of patients and their parents about more severe illnesses.
A typology of chronic illness in childhood and adolescence is developed.
In a comparative analysis of 29 studies, maximal androgen deprivation (MAD) was not found to be superior to partial androgen deprivation.
Thus, MAD cannot be regarded as the new gold standard.
Most trials focus on quality of life which - given the palliative aim of the treatment - deserves special attention.
This aspect has not yet been evaluated, however, in the largest multicenter study, Intergroup study 0105.
In patients with advanced bone metastasis or severe pain, MAD treatment should be begun because of the flare phenomenon.
The synergistic effects of LHRH agonists on the prostate are currently being investigated.
Since no clear prognostic factors exist and reduction of serum-PSA levels under MAD does not delay progression, the patient must help to make the decision of whether or not MAD should be begun.
A case of generalized maculopapular rash and local indurated plaques following s.c. injections of either low-molecular-weight heparin or conventional (high-molecular-weight) heparin to a 75-year-old woman is reported.
This rare reaction is described and the literature to date is reviewed.
Perioperative morbidity and mortality in noncardiac surgery are mainly due to cardiovascular complications.
Therefore, perioperative risk assessment is crucial to avoid these adverse events.
In patients above the age of 40 years, the ECG is a basic investigation, often providing hints for cardiovascular diseases.
Stress testing and, in special cases, stress echocardiography or scintigraphy (the latter only in those patients, in which exercise is impossible) can detect significant coronary artery disease.
The vascularization reduced the perioperative risk in particular in those patients with unstable angina or severe coronary artery disease.
However, prophylactic revascularization the stable patient does not improve overall outcome, because the risk of the revascularizing procedure must be added to the risk of noncardiac surgery.
Other diagnostic procedures like echocardiography, chest roentgenogram, routine scintigraphy, halter ECG or halter blood pressure measurement do not add information to the perioperative risk assessment, although these techniques might be very relevant in evaluating other coexisting diseases (heart failure; valve lesions, in particular aortic stenoses etc.)
and can be useful to improve medical treatment preoperatively (e.g.
normalization of blood pressure).
A verrucous carcinoma of the urinary bladder (pT4N0M0, G1) developed in a 66-year-old woman who had been suffering from interstitial cystitis with Hunner's ulcer for 10 years.
Up to now, only 7 cases of verrucous carcinoma of the urinary bladder unassociated with bilharzial cystitis have been reported.
Although the development of a verrucous carcinoma as a complication of interstitial cystitis has not been reported so far, the authors regard the chronic irritation of the bladder to be the most important etiologic factor for the malignant transformation.
After conservative management had failed, a radical cystectomy with supravesical urinary diversion was performed.
The characteristics of interstitial cystitis, verrucous carcinoma and surgical management are discussed.
Introduction: Abdominal actinomycosis is an uncommon disease.
Nevertheless it should be considered in case of unclear tumor-like abdominal masses.
Methods: We report a case of a 49-year-old patient with an intrauterine device.
The patient was submitted with a solid and painful tumor in the upper abdomen.
After sonography, computerized tomography, gastroduodenoscopy and colonoscopy the preoperative presumptive diagnosis was a carcinoma of the transvers colon invading the abdominal wall.
Pathological examination after a right hemicolectomy surprisingly revealed an actinomycosis.
Results: Based on this case diagnostic tools and therapeutic options of actinomycosis of the colon are discussed.
Conclusions: This case illustrates the importance to consider the possibility of actinomycosis when finding an unclear abdominal mass.
After a surgical excision an abdominal actinomycosis requires antibiotic therapy.
Long-term treatment of patients with chronic schizophrenias requires integration of many therapeutic approaches, co-operation of several professions, and regard for the views of patients and relatives.
This review deals with practical aspects of pharmacotherapy, psychotherapy, cognitive resp.
psychological treatments, social resp.
milieu therapy, rehabilitation, interventions based on the concept of Expressed Emotions (EE), psychoeducation and work with relatives.
Continuous neuroleptic treatment is indispensable in most cases to achieve social integration.
Indications for adding on antidepressants, lithium, carbamazepine, benzodiazepines and other drugs are discussed, as well as treatment of negative symptoms, depression and management of treatment-resistant symptoms.
Psychotherapy needs to regard the possibilities of the patient.
In the context of a stable long-term relationship, the patient is supported in experiencing himself as a subject capable of action.
Effectiveness of cognitive treatments to date is limited.
The best results are achieved by social skills training.
Social therapy, which aims at the improvement of functional aspects of the patient, is of paramount importance.
Improved possibilities for work rehabilitation are contrasted by difficulties in financing long-term social rehabilitation.
Interventions based on the EE concept are highly effective, but are rarely used.
Programs that merely convey information without targeting behaviour modification are ineffective.
The functions of facilities of treatment in the community are explained, the integrative role of case-management is stressed.
The effect of a locally applied peppermint oil preparation on tension-type headache was examined in the design of a randomized, placebo-controlled double-blind crossover study for the first time.
The preparation was tested against both the reference substance acetaminophen and to the corresponding placebo.
The liquid test preparation contained 10 g of peppermint oil and ethanol (90 %) ad 100 (test preparation LI 170, Lichtwer Pharma, Berlin); the placebo was a 90 % ethanol solution to which traces of peppermint oil were added for blinding purposes.
The reference preparation contained 500 mg acetaminophen; the placebo tablet was identical to the verum in size and appearance.
The study included the analysis of 164 headache attacks of 41 patients of both sexes ranging between 18 and 65 years of age, suffering from tension-type headache in accordance with the IHS classification.
Four headache episodes per patient were treated in a double-blind, randomized crossover design.
Each headache attack was treated by the application of 2 capsules of the oral medication (1000 mg of acetaminophen or placebo) and the cutaneous application of the oil preparation (peppermint oil or placebo solution).
The oil was spread largely across forehead and temples which was repeated after 15 and 30 minutes.
Using a headache diary, the headache parameters were assessed after 15, 30, 45 and 60 minutes.
Compared to the application of placebo, a 10 % peppermint oil in ethanol solution significantly reduced the clinical headache intensity already after 15 minutes (p < 0.01).
This significant clinical reduction of the pain intensity continued over the one hour observation period.
Acetaminophen, too, proved to be efficient compared to placebo (p < 0.01).
There was no significant difference between the efficacy of 1000 mg of acetaminophen and 10 % peppermint oil in ethanol solution.
Simultaneous application of 1000 mg of acetaminophen and 10 % peppermint oil in ethanol solution leads to an additive effect which remains below the significance threshold, however.
The patients reported no adverse events.
This controlled study showed for the first time that a 10 % peppermint oil in ethanol solution efficiently alleviates tension-type headache.
Peppermint oil thus proves to be a well-tolerated and cost-effective alternative to usual therapies.
The positive results of several multi-center studies significantly improved the immunomodulatory treatment of multiple sclerosis over the last few years.
It was demonstrated that different compounds are capable to reduce the number of relapses and to modulate the progression of disease.
To improve the transition of results obtained in these studies into daily clinical practice, a consensus group started to prepare a report on the current treatment options for the German-speaking European countries.
The aim of this paper is to summarize the current knowledge, compare the results of recent clinical trials with the experience from other  therapeutic options and assess their clinical evidence.
Dislocated metacarpal V fractures, fixed by percutaneous Kirschner wires or other implants near the metacarpophalangeal joint, often show impaired movement despite excellent radiologic findings.
We therefore chose an alternative method using intramedullary Kirschner wire osteosynthesis according to Foucher.
Twenty-five patients were operated on in a 3-year period and movement of the fingers and complications were examined.
Six weeks after operation all fractures were consolidated in anatomical reduction.
One patient suffering from an early stage of Sudeck's dystrophy was healed, and no other complications appeared.
Three months after treatment all patients achieved free movement of the fingers with anatomical alignment.
We therefore recommend intramedullary Kirschner wire osteosynthesis in distal metacarpal V fractures.
Aspiration of toxic substances, foreign material, bacterially contaminated secretions, or water (near-drowning) either immediately leads to cessation of respiration or to impaired ventilation due to airway obstruction, it causes hypoxia due to surfactant dysfunction, and pulmonary infection might develop.
Respiratory insufficiency is the resulting consequence which needs immediate and appropriate therapy and intervention.
The knowledge of risk factors that promote aspiration injury is important for its prevention and limitation.
Mortality varies between 3 and 70% depending on patients studied, and on the nature and amount of aspirated material.
The major cause of death is acute respiratory failure.
The onset of injury to the lung after aspiration is very rapid.
Therefore, therapeutic interventions like bronchoscopy are often too late.
More importantly, oxygenation should be monitored continuously for timely institution of mechanical ventilation.
Antibiotics should not be given routinely but a calculated regime is neccessary when signs of infection develop.
Prognosis in near-drowning considerably depends on early rescue and successful resuscitation.
A rapid onset of cerebral hypothermia during the accident can help to increase the ischemic tolerance of the brain and makes it neccessary to continue advanced life support until rewarming of the near-drowning victim.
Anticipation of individual outcome in unconscious patients is difficult.
One third of them survive with a moderate to severe neurologic damage.
The overall mortality of near-drowning is about 11%.
Pathophysiological aspects, diagnostic procedures, pratical management and possible prophylaxis of aspiration injuries will be discussed.
Background: Semiquantitative classification of corneal topography after penetrating keratoplasty has the potential for focusing information about the areal dioptric power of the cornea.
The purpose of this study was to objectify the procedure of manual semiquantitative classification using a Fourier transform of corneal topography power data and to correlate both methods.
Recently, professional anaesthesiologists organizations, have set up recommendations for intraoperative monitoring.
These recommendations are based upon the assumption that anaesthesia-related deaths are largely preventable and that extensive monitoring will reduce mortality.
Hypoxaemia appears to be an important pathophysiological mechanism, and this is why oxygen monitoring is given a high priority in safety standards in anaesthesia.
However, no reduction in mortality has been definitively shown to follow the use of any monitoring device in randomized, controlled trials.
Four techniques of oxygen monitoring are discussed and evaluated.
Oxygen monitoring during inspiration can be recommended, although its implementation will probably prevent only a few anaesthesia-related deaths.
Pulse oximetry is certainly highly recommended, but also has some deficiencies which are not sufficiently well known considering the popularity of this technique.
Transcutaneous PO2 is considered mainly for historical reasons.
Near infrared spectrometry is a new technique offering noninvasive and continuous monitoring of intracerebral oxygenation.
The increasing frequency of stent implantation into coronary arteries is based mainly on assumptions.
One of these assumptions is that stents may prevent restenosis.
Stents can prevent restenosis as has been shown in two randomized studies (Stress I and Benestent I), but only in large (> 3.0mm) vessels with short denovo lesions.
Despite the very tight selection of patients suitable for stent implantation in these two studies, the advantage for stents remained small (about 10% less restenosis) and appeared to decrease with time following intervention.
There is increasing concern about the extension of stenting in an "unrestricted strategy".
This concern was expressed in the ACC Expert Consensus Document which was published recently (JACC 28, No 3, September 1996: 782-794.
Based on the lack of data for most of the presently used stent indications the expert group recommended a more selective strategy for the implantation of stents into coronary arteries.
Removal of the arterial sheath immediately after PTCA is desirable for patients, reduces the medical staff's workload, and may decrease hospital costs due to a shortened length of stay.
Although the safety and efficacy of the hemostatic systems used especially for the above purpose have been sufficiently documented, inadvertent intraluminal vascular occlusion is theoretically possible.
While partial or complete arterial occlusion in conjunction with the VasoSeal collagen prototype device has been previously reported, similar complications occurring with the Angio-SealTM device were not published.
In this report, we describe a 54-year old female patient (height: 150 cm, weight: 42.5 kg) who was transferred for PTCA following an acute anterior wall myocardial infarction.
Immediately after PTCA, the Angio-SealTM device was deployed utilizing standard technique.
No difficulties were encountered during device deployment, however, immediately following device placement active arterial bleeding occurred.
Due to the inadequacy of hemostasis, heparin was reversed with protamine to avoid further hemorrhagic complications.
Following this, the desired hemostasis quickly occurred, but the patient soon complained about symptoms suggestive of an acute occlusion of the right femoral artery.
Unsatisfactory attempts as lysis resulted in the patient being transferred to vascular surgery.
The complete Angio-SealTM system (anchor including collagen) was located intravasculary, and removed during surgery.
Deviations in the axes can be physiological or pathological.
During growth, the axes of the lower extremities undergo significant changes.
The femoral neck-shaft-angle decreases from 150 ° on average at birth to 120 ° on average at the end of growth.
The lower leg is bowed in a varus direction at birth.
On the basis of an extensive literature search (DIMDI, MEDLINE - status at June 1992), the causes of contact urticaria so far known are displayed in tables.
The contact urticariogens can be divided into (1) chemically defined substances and (2) chemically undefined biological materials.
The causes most frequently encountered in 16 professions are given.
Numerous agents are known for medical professions (physicians, nurses, dentists and dental technicians, veterinary surgeons).
Today, the most frequent single cause of contact urticaria is probably the presence of latex proteins in rubber (gloves, condoms, tubes, balloons, etc.).
When testing is performed a stepwise approach is recommended for safety reasons (rub test, prick test, scratch chamber test).
For some contact urticariogens a commercial radioallergosorbent test (RAST) is available.
In the cases reported in the literature it is not always possible to decide definitely whether the pathogenetic mechanism was immunologic (IgE mediated) or non-immunologic (toxic or pseudoallergic).
When there is a high degree of sensitization (e.g.
to latex) professional activities must be severely restricted, or even completely discontinued in rare cases.
Purpose: To find and describe potential MRI criteria of nutrient vessel canals of carpal bones.
2-Agonists are being used increasingly in anaesthesia and intensive care medicine because of their antihypertensive, analgesic and sedative properties.
Platelets bear 2-receptors on the cell surface.
Stimulation of these receptors by agonists induces platelet aggregation.
The present study examined whether in vitro incubation of blood with the 2-agonists clonidine and dexmedetomidine decreases 2-receptor density and hereby influences platelet aggregation.
Prehospital diagnosis and first line therapy of acute chest pain are among the most frequently encountered challenges for general practitioners and emergency physicians.
Acute myocardial infarction or acute coronary syndromes in general are present in about a third of patients complaining of acute chest pain.
The basis of first line therapy is the understanding of the pathophysiology of myocardial ischemia, the clinical symptoms, the diagnostic tools and the preclinically available therapeutic options.
Time is the most critical factor in myocardial ischemia and subsequent infarction with irreversible injury of subendocardial cells starting within 30-60 minutes of total myocardial ischemia and with transmural infarction becoming complete in 3 to 6 hours.
With 30% of patients dying within the first hour of ischemia mostly due to ventricular arrhyhtmias every effort needs to be made to shorten the delay between symptom onset and start of reperfusion therapy.
The present overview concentrates on the armamentarium of preclincial diagnosis and the options of first line therapy of myocardial infarction with the aim of a short transport time to the hospital and therefore a short delay to more specific therapies like thrombolysis or PTCA.
The aim of surgical intervention in the treatment of primary hyperparathyroidism (pHPT) is the achievement of normocalcemia and euparathyreosis.
Despite improved diagnostic procedures containing comparatively modified pre- and intraoperative methods to determine the position of the parathyroid glands and the most efficient operative technique including minimal-invasive surgery thereof, success cannot be guaranteed.
Therefore, we should strive to avoid reintervention by ensuring a hemorrhage-free, atraumatic, anatomical-orientated operation and providing positive preconditions for reoperation.
Success is based on the four pillars of the HPT surgery: history, embryology with anatomy, neck surgery and experience.
By means of this principle and the results of surgical treatment in 1634 patients with pHPT from 1982 until 1998, we demonstrate a standardized operative technique of pHPT.
A 67-year-old male patient presented with a nephrotic syndrome.
Biopsy of the kidney revealed the characteristic of fibrillary glo-merulopathy on light and electron micros-copy.
Other non-nephritic causes of a nephrotic syndrome (e.g.
amyloidosis, immunotactoid glomerulopathy, light-chain glomerulopathy, cryoglobulinaemia, collagen-III glomerulopathy, fibronectin glomerulopathy) could be excluded.
Besides the case report, differential diagnosis of fibrillary glomerulopathies is presented.
Two patients were infected with sporotrichosis; one had the fixed cutaneous form, the other the lymphocutaneous form.
Sporotrichosis schenckii was identified in both with a culture from a tissue biopsy.
Both patients were successfully treated with itraconazole, one received 100 mg and the other 200 mg itraconazole daily over a 3 months period.
Abstract   Mitoxantrone is an anthracenedione antineoplastic agent that has recently been shown to be effective in ameliorating disease activity in multiple sclerosis (MS) as indicated by clinical and MRI data.
However, the role of mitoxantrone in escalating treatment of patients with frequent and severe relapses and with rapid progression of disability is less clear.
In this retrospective analysis we report on 15 patients with severe relapsing-remitting (9 patients) and secondary progressive MS with superimposed exacerbations (6 patients) treated openlabeled with mitoxantrone in our Clinical Research Group from July 1994 to October 1998.
Eleven of these patients (73%) were treated with azathioprine, interferon-beta-1b or cyclophosphamide before.
The patients received mitoxantrone over a period of at least 12 months (19 +/- 6 months) with a single dose of 10 mg/m2 monthly for the first three months.
Thereafter, infusions were repeated every 3 months (total dose 141 mg +/- 45 mg).
The annual relapse rate could be significantly reduced from 3,0 +/- 1,5 in the year before therapy to 0,5 +/- 0,5 during therapy.
Nine patients (60%) were stabilised, while four patients (27%) showed an improvement of disability.
The treatment was well tolerated with only minor side effects.
These results although retrospectively obtained confirm previous trials showing that mitoxantrone may be useful in MS patients with frequent and severe exacerbations and/or a rapidly progressive course of the disease who have had other immunomodulatory medication.
Interstitial cystitis (IC) represents a rare and complex inflammatory bladder condition in which diagnostics can be challenging.
Strict NIH criteria for its diagnosis were designed for research purposes.
Their routine application would miss large proportions of IC patients.
When IC is suspected, history and physical exam are followed by an evaluation of long-term voiding diaries.
Large voided volumes (functional capacity >250 cc) or longer micturition intervals (>2 h.), absence of nocturia or symptom-free periods reduce the likelihood of IC.
Further exclusion diagnostics include urine tests (infection), cytology (in-situ carcinoma), ultrasound (calculi, bulks, anomalies) and urodynamics in selected cases.
Bladder capacity measurements under sedoanalgesia are of limited value, since functional low-volume bladders can be mechanically extendable.
Cystoscopy under general anesthesia represents the diagnostic standard procedure for IC during which 90% of IC-patients present with characteristic mucosal glomerulations after bladder distension.
Biopsies are recommended for exclusion of malignancy.
Potassium-leak testing plays no relevant role in routine diagnostics due to its poor sensitivity.
Similarly, complex determinations of novel IC markers (histamine, tryptase, cytokines, growth factors, substance P, nitric oxide) are of no relevance in clinical settings and should be restricted to research projects.
According to semiotics, which may be defined as the doctrine of the essential nature and fundamental varieties of signs, objects, and interpretants, pain is considered to be a sign (significant) with very different meanings (significance) either as a naturalistic symptom (of disease) or as a symbol used in a metaphorical context.
When following this methodological perspective it is possible to interpret medical as well as poetic writings on equal terms.
In Graeco-Roman medical texts pain was mostly understood as a result and an indicator of disease, but nonetheless as a symptom which seemed to be actively produced by the affected body.
Especially in the Corpus Hippocraticum dating from the 5th and 4th century B. C. this materialistic and at the same time psychosomatic attitude can be noticed.
Aristotle (4th century B. C.), Celsus (1st century A. D.), and the famous experimental physiologist Galen (2nd century A. D.) agreed that pain was a sign of evil which should be fought without exception.
It was Galen who added the disturbance of function (functio laesa) as the fifth cardinal sign of inflammation to the four well-known cardinal signs of Celsus (rubor, calor, tumor, dolor).
He also coined the term µK to characterize an attack of migraine.
In algotherapy, Galen used a complex pharmacological system which was based upon the four cardinal qualities of humoral pathology.
On the other hand, pain was designed as a multi-dimensional symbol by the famous Graeco-Roman epic poets.
In Homer's Odyssey (8th century B. C.), pain appears transformed into the shape of a scar which is visible and palpable on the hero's leg like an identification tag, whereas in Virgil's Aeneids (1st century B. C.) pain symbolizes weakness and defencelessness which can only be alleviated by the goddess Venus.
In this article current indications and limitations of neuromuscular monitoring are reviewed.
Attention is mainly focused on detection of residual curarisation.
New insights in the pathophysiological consequences of residual neuromuscular blockade and the actual criteria of complete recovery are discussed.
Surprisingly in this context, despite the benefit of neuromuscular monitoring, its utilisation in clinical practice is rather an exception than the routine.
A lack of standardisation of neuromuscular monitoring is probably the major problem on the way to a widespread utilisation of the monitoring.
Three patients presented with an acquired green discoloration of their scalp hair.
History revealed that all of them swam regularly in private swimming pools.
Examination of the hair by atomic emission spectroscopy showed that the green discoloration was caused by an excessively high copper content of the hair.
This exogeneous discoloration is characteristically related to the uptake of copper from private swimming pools.
A 62-year-old female patient presented with bullous, intensely itching cutaneous lesions, which clinically and histopathologically resembled dermatitis herpetiformis (Duhring's disease).
Therapy with DADPS was unsuccessful.
Because of associated cervical lymph node enlargement and splenomegaly, a lymph node biopsy was taken.
Histopathology of a lymph node and of the bone marrow confirmed the diagnosis: angioimmunoblastic lymphadenopathy (AILD)-type T-cell lymphoma.
Intensely pruritic associated skin eruptions are typical for this peculiar kind of lymphoma.
These skin lesions are due to inflammatory cells and not to neoplastic infiltrations.
This case report is the first report of AILD with bullous skin lesions to appear in the literature.
Background: The procedures for prophylaxis and treatment of keratopathy following facial palsy with lagophthalmos are unsatisfying from the functional point of view.
The purpose of our study was to compare the diagnostic performance of a 0.2-T MRI unit and a 1.0-T MRI unit in the evaluation of the anterior cruciate ligament in patients with clinically suspected lesions of this ligament.
Twenty four patients with clinically suspected lesions of the anterior cruciate ligament underwent MRI of the knee on both 0.2-T and 1.0-T MRI units.
Three independent observers evaluated the examinations for primary and secondary signs of a tear of the anterior cruciate ligament.
Frequency of these signs was determined for both modalities, and observer agreement was assessed using the kappa statistic.
Sixteen of 24 patients had signs of tears of the anterior cruciate ligament on the 1.0-T unit; the 0.2-T unit detected primary signs in 15/16 (93 %) patients and secondary signs in 7/12 (43 %) patients.
In 8 patients the 1.0 T unit showed neither primary nor secondary signs for tears of the anterior cruciate ligament; in these patients the 0.2-T unit detected primary signs in 1/8 cases (12 %), and secondary signs in 3/8 cases (37 %).
Observer agreement was very good for the 1.0-T unit and fair for the 0.2-T unit.
There is no substantial difference between 1.0-T units and 0.2-T MRI units in the visualisation of primary signs of tears of the anterior cruciate ligament.
In the visualisation of secondary signs, 1.0-T units are superior to 0.2-T units, and there is a surprisingly high rate of false-positive results with the 0.2-T unit.
As to the reproducibility of the results, the 1.0-T unit is far superior to the 0.2-T unit.
Purpose of our study was to develop a reliable model to define clinical stage I nonseminomatous germ cell tumors (NSGCT) being at low risk and at high risk for occult retroperitoneal metastases based on pathohistological and immunohistochemical parameters in order to stratify the therapeutic approach.
3-5 paraffin-embedded formalin fixed tissue blocks of 149 clinical stage I NSGCT were available from all patients and were analyzed for histopathological features associated with pathological stage: presence/absence of vascular invasion, presence/absence of tunical invasion, percentage of each histological cell type present in the primary tumor.
Immunohistochemical expression of MIB-1, p53, bcl-2, cathepsin D and e-cadherin was evaluated using a semiquantitative scoring ystem.
Statistical analysis was performed by univariate and multivariate logistic regression models.
Percentage of embryonal carcinoma [%EC (p < 0.001)] and presence of vascular invasion [VI (p < 0.0001)] were the most significant independent risk factors associated with pathological stage II disease.
Combination of %EC and VI allowed correct prediction of final pathological stage in 88 % of patients.
Cut-off values including both variables identified correct pathological stage in 131/149 patients (88 %).
Less than 45 % EC and absence of VI correctly identified pathological stage I disease in 91.5 %; more than 80 % EC and presence of VI correctly predicted pathological stage II in 88 % of the patients.
%EC and presence/absence of VI appear to be reliable prognosticators to identify both patients at high risk and at low risk for occult retroperitoneal disease.
P53, bcl-2, MIB-1, cathepsin D and e-cadherin did not appear to be of prognostic value in clinical stage I NSGCT.
In the framework of rheumatic illnesses, the lungs and pleura are often observed to be involved.
Dependent on the basic illness in question, conditions of the bronchoalveolar system, vessels, lymphatic system, and pleura that have developed differently inter- and intraindividually can be diagnosed in toporegionally variable forms and combinations.
In the causal pathogenesis, the initial (auto-)immunological alteration of the alveolar septa plays a role.
When the monocytes, macrophages, and fibroblasts are activated, as a result of a chronic inflammatory process there is increasing reparative proliferation, which finally leads to the nonspecific end stage of irreversible interstitial fibrosis.
The incidence and manifestation forms of lung changes show certain differences dependent on the underyling illness (e.g., rheumatoid arthritis, systemic lupus erythematosus, progressive systemic scleroderma, dermatomyositis and polymyositis, Sjögren syndrome, and mixed connective tissue disease).
In addition to vasculitis and granulomatosis of the lung, therapy-induced lung changes must also be considered in the differential diagnosis since almost all basic therapeutic agents can cause this type of lung condition.
Good knowledge of the parameters from the viewpoint of possible therapeutic measures is indispensable, as is close cooperation between the treating physician and the pathologist.
Scintigraphic imaging identifies pathophysiological processes; in other words it assesses regional perfusion, permeability, leukocytic accumulation and bone turnover.
These processes precede morphological changes and this accounts for the high sensitivity of nuclear medicine procedures as well as the low specificity for the differential diagnosis of different diseases with similar pathophysiological characteristics.
This review (1) describes and evaluates the currently used scintigraphic procedures, (2) suggests their differential use in certain clinical settings in comparison with alternative radiological methods and (3) addresses new developments in diagnosis using nuclear medicine procedures.
In summary, we advise dynamic bone scanning as a primary scintigraphic investigation.
A negative scan excludes osteomyelitis in most cases.
The comparison is made with conventional radiology and clinical history.
In cases with short clinical histories ( = granulocytic inflammation), leukocyte scintigraphy should be the next diagnostic step; in chronic processes (lymphomonocytic inflammation), gallium scintigraphy is advisable.
Other scintigraphic methods might be of additional use in experienced hands.
SPECT is useful for clarifying inconclusive planar scans of the head, spine and large joints.
To assess the clinical effectiveness of glaucoma therapy with diode laser cyclophotocoagulation, 106 eyes (51 eyes with primary open-angle glaucoma, 22 eyes with secondary glaucoma, 10 eyes with narrow-angle glaucoma, 23 eyes with other glaucomas) of 87 patients were treated.
Using a diode laser coupled with a fiberoptic probe, ending in a focusing tip, all eyes were treated with 24-30 spots over 360  ° and 2.8-3.6 J of energy, 1.5 mm posterior to the limbus.
The intraocular pressure was obtained over a period of time until 8-24 months after operation.
Additionally, morphological changes of the ciliary body were observed in 25 eyes by means of ultrasound biomicroscopy.
Our objective was to determine the efficacy of ESWL treatment in children and the extent of auxiliary measures.
In a retrospective analysis we investigated number of auxiliary measures and the stone-free rate in children after ESWL treatment.
We report a 44-year-old female patient who underwent surgery because of a suspected primary tumor of the renal pelvis in imaging procedures.
Histology revealed the diagnosis of mesoblastic nephroma.
This tumor represents a special entity of nephroblastoma that rarely occurs in adults.
There is no unanimous opinion on the biological behavior of mesoblastic nephroma because the tumor behaves differently.
The question of whether nephrectomy is indicated if there are no malignant features is also open.
The decision depends on the given case.
Nephrectomy can only be avoided if the intraoperative situation allows the tumor to be removed with an adequate distance from healthy tissue.
The safety margin is necessary because mesoblastic nephroma shows fingerlike spread into the surrounding tissue.
Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPX) is a non-invasive method of recording quantitative data from gas exchange and ventilation for the evaluation of oxidative metabolism at rest and during exercise.
Determination of oxygen uptake (VO2) and carbon dioxide output (VCO2) describes the activity of anaerobic vs aerobic metabolism.
An incremental exercise test measuring gas exchange, ventilation and lactate release was performed in healthy volunteers and in patients suffering from mitochondrial disorders.
At rest as well as during exercise patients with mitochondrial disorders differ from healthy subjects with regard to gas exchange and ventilation parameters.
During exercise, the decreased oxygen utilization of skeletal muscle and early activation of anaerobic metabolism in these patients are mirrored by a reduced anaerobic threshold, reduced maximal oxygen uptake and reduced oxygen pulse.
Our study shows that CPX is a sensitive and practical clinical screening method of investigating mitochondrial disorders.
Monitoring of pH of the esophagus is a routine diagnostic procedure, whereas until now pH-monitoring of the hypopharynx has been used only for scientific research.
In the present study a critical evaluation scale was used to record the results of 112 patients who underwent pH monitoring to determine possible reflux.
Since high refluxes often remain unnoticed clinically, further study is required in certain cases.
The extent of reflux in the esophagus may not represent pathological changes in the hypopharynx.
In such cases 24-h pH monitoring of the hypopharynx can be a useful diagnostic procedure and may also help detect the pathogenesis of "gastric laryngitis".
The occurrence of plasmodial giant cells in the liver is probably a morphological reaction pattern with the most diverse causes.
In babies and infants, these changes occur in particular in neonatal hepatitis and intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile duct atresia.
Viral infections and/or autoimmune reactions are discussed etiologically in giant cell hepatitis in adults (adult giant cell hepatitis, AGCH), which is much rarer.
In some of the cases, there were conspicuously high titers against paramyxoviruses.
Giant cell hepatitis can occur in the course of HIV infection.
These both indicate an infectious cause.
However, the disease cannot be transmitted to chimpanzees.
Apart from our case, only one further case is described in the literature in which a completed hepatitis A infection could be demonstrated serologically.
In addition, the titer of antinuclear antibodies was raised in our patient.
This autoimmune phenomenon is probably of crucial pathogenetic significance in our patient, especially since a hepatitis A infection on its own does not afford an adequate etiological explanation for the form of chronic and active hepatitis with consecutive cirrhotic transformation observed here.
In patients with a significant elongation of the ACL we propose a new therapeutic regimen.
After mobilisation of the tibial insertion of the ACL we pull the bone block with the attached ACL distally.
Thus the ACL is easily tightened.
In accordance with this method, we describe the treatment of a case of a strictly proximal rupture of the ACL: the tibial insertion is mobilised, the bone block with the attached ACL removed from the joint.
Ex vivo sutures are placed into the ACL, the ligament is pulled back into the joint, and the shortening of the ligament caused by the sutures is compensated by slight proximal dislocation of the bone block.
Purpose: One aspect of biocompatibility of IOLs can be tested using specular microscopy of the anterior and posterior surface of the lens in vivo.
Background: The paper focuses on the issues, how couples cope with SIDS and how this can be facilitated by subsequent children, self-help and professional support.
Methods: In a retrospective study, 60 couples, members of a self-help organization, were studied at the average of 5 years (2-215 months) after their loss.
Depression, anxiety, physical complaints and grief were assessed by standardized questionnaires.
A community sample of equal size of men and women of the same age were used as controls.
Results: Average scores of depression and physical complaints were elevated compared to the community sample.
Men and women coped differently with the loss: Bereft mothers were more depressed and ruminated more about cause and preventability of the death than fathers.
They expressed their grief more openly and found it more helpful to speak about their loss.
The presence of subsequent children was of prime importance for coping with the loss; an early subsequent pregnancy was fraught with increased anxiety.
Conclusions: The self-help group serves an important function as a coping resource; the pediatrician plays a key role in the psychosocial care of the afflicted families.
A 63-year-old women developed livedo reticularis during treatment with amantadine.
This reversible side effect of amantadine has been most often seen in women and is frequently associated with persistent ankle edema.
We discuss the signs and symptoms, pathogenesis and treatment of amantadine-induced livedo reticularis.
Despite the diagnostic criteria of the ICD-10 and DSM-IV, the term borderline has been used in a non-specific way for a long time.
For our investigation we constructed a questionnaire, which contained the ICD-10 diagnostic criteria for the borderline personality disorder (BPD), plus the criteria for the other personality disorders and for the schizotype disorder.
The two additional criteria for the BPD used by the DSM-IV were added.
800 psychiatrists and psychologists were asked to mark all criteria, which they thought were typical for the BPD.
By using the operational diagnostic approach for ICD-10 and DSM-IV a disorder was diagnosed from each of the 162 received questionnaires based on the marked criteria.
92,0% of the questionnaires contained marked criteria for the diagnosis of the BPD by ICD-10 and 96,3% by DSM-IV.
In addition each questionnaire contained up to eight other diagnosis.
This is a sign for the difficulty to separate the BPD from other personalitiy disorders or the schizotype  disorder by using operationalised criteria.
Looking at the lack of specifity of the operational diagnostic systems for personality  disorders, e.g.
for the BPD which has been discussed by many authors for years, modification of the diagnostic systems should be considered.
Neurobiological research has implicated the dopamine and serotonin system in the pathogenesis of self-injurious behavior.
The efficacy of antipsychotic drugs has been questioned.
Opened and controlled investigations have shown risperidone is effective for reducing self-injurious behaviour in mentally retardation.
We report about 3 mentally retarded patients which were given open-label riperidone for 12 weeks.They participated in a detailed assessment of behaviour symptoms at baseline and the repititive behaviour was weekly rated with the disability assessment schedule (DAS).
Purpose: To test the capabilities of vacuum core biopsy (VCB) in the diagnosis of mammographically indeterminate lesions.
Materials and Methods: 120 patients (131 lesions) were examined using VCB with 14G or 11G vacuum core.
Radiologic information systems (RIS) and picture archiving and communication systems (PACS) are becoming increasingly widespread.
This leads to new demands on the integration of the individual, formerly independent information systems (RIS, modalities, PACS).
Possible ways of integrating individual systems are introduced.
Besides the detailed description of different realizations of system communication, its role in the PACS at the university hospital in Freiburg is explained.
The integration of different information systems still requires the use of proprietary interfaces.
An appropriate integration generally has been realized in Freiburg.
In the near future DICOM basic worklist management will standardize system integration and render an interdepartmental workflow concept possible.
Even though an available communication standard exists, not all problems in the RIS-modality interface are solved.
Different data models in the various RI systems and modalities demand certain degrees of freedom in the standard.
Thus a satisfactory workflow cannot be guaranteed even when all involved systems conform with the standard.
Background: Denecke developed 1957 a surgical strategy consisting of three or four operative steps for rehabilitation of patients with unilateral paralysis of IXth and Xth cranial nerve.
These four steps are the following: myotomy of the cricopharyngeal muscle, resection of the paralyzed pharyngeal wall, medialization of the paralyzed vocal cord and fixation of the soft palate to the posterior pharyngeal wall which can be facultative.
Reconstruction of the navel after tumour excision with subsequent navel resection is of great aesthetic importance for the patient.
Methods of navel reconstruction are found in the literature but do not provide an elegant solution to the problem.
Our method permits reconstruction of the navel during wound closure, by creation of two opposing trapezoidal skin flaps at the excision margin in the midline of the body; the umbilical fossa is then restored by jointly anchoring these flaps to the linea alba.
Reconstruction has been successfully carried out in this way after melanoma excision in 7 patients.
Mammography is an established diagnostic procedure for breast cancer.
Data concerning screening mammography are available from nine prospectively controlled trials, the largest series being presented from Sweden.
Mammographic screening leads to a significant reduction of breast cancer of 30 % in women ages 50-59 years.
In younger women (40-49 years) the benefit accounts to only 20 % and has not proven to be statistically significant.
Nevertheless, the major advantage of mammographic screening is detection of the non-palpable tumor <= 10 mm in size.
The treatment of these small breast carcinomas leads to long-term survival rates of >= 90 %.
Mammographic screening programs have been introduced in the USA, Canada, Iceland and Sweden for women in their 5th decade of life.
Starting yearly lifelong mammography-screening at the age of 40, the theoretical cancer induction by radiation exposure does not exceed 0.1 %.
Under highly qualified conditions, it should be possible to minimize false-positive and false-negative screening results.
In Germany, screening-mammography is only introduced in patients at high risk for breast cancer.
Based on medical data, mammography must be a part of screening for women with an average risk - starting at the age of 40, although there are still open questions needing further clinical research.
Upper lid closure in facial nerve paresis induced lagophthalmos is often improved by implantation of gold weights.
However, the tolerability of gold implants has not always met expectations.
We therefore investigated whether results could be improved by implantation of well-tolerated platinum implants.
Methods to determine the mechanical properties of surgical wounds and sutures are valuable tools in wound healing research.
So far standardized testing procedures have not been defined in the surgical literature, which reduces the comparability of results from different authors.
Therefore we suggest a modified tensile testing procedure which follows German industrial standards (DIN 53 455).
The experimental set-up includes an universal testing machine and special clamps.
The dumbbell-shaped specimen consist of freshly prepared pig skin and the suture which is to be tested.
Well-known mechanical properties of surgical sutures and wounds were used to approve the precision of the experimental set-up.
Reproducible analysis of all tested sutures and wounds (n = 120) was possible.
We recommend testing procedures adapted to industrial standards to obtain comparable results in determination of mechanical properties of surgical wounds and sutures.
Abstract  An infection with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) leads to a large variety of complications affecting almost every organ system.
With the increasing numbers of HIV infections, some authors have reported an occasional association between an infection with HIV and arterial aneurysm.
However, complications affecting the vascular system demanding surgical intervention are rare.
Partial nasal obstruction in preterm and term infants increases airway resistance.
It may reduce ventilation and cause disturbances of respiratory regulation.
Although this is well established, nasogastric tubes are commonly used, because orogastric tubes are difficult to secure.
A new technique for fixing orogastric tubes was tested in a prospective study in 11 preterm and term infants over a 4 weeks period.
There was no preterm dislocation of an oral tube in 7 patients.
The orogastric tube had to be reinserted once before regular change in 3 patients and only 1 patiend aged 15 weeks presented with multiple dislocations of the tube.
On the basis of a 3 days period for regular change of the orogastric tube the reliability of this new technique was 86,2% for all patients and 92,5% for patients below 8 weeks of age.
Mesenchymal neoplasms of lipogenic differentiation are the most common soft-tissue neoplasms in adults.
In recent years a number of "new" entities and variants have been described.
Their recognition is important to avoid diagnostic pitfalls and inappropriate therapy.
Chondroid lipoma, myolipoma, and purely cutaneous spindle-cell/pleomorphic lipoma are biologically benign neoplasms which may mimic sarcomas morphologically.
Despite high-grade morphology cutaneous liposarcomas carry a favorable clinical prognosis.
Spindle cell liposarcoma is a rare variant of atypical lipomatous tumour (well-differentiated liposarcoma) and must be distinguished from dedifferentiated liposarcoma with metastatic potential and benign spindle cell lipoma.
The advent of cytogenetic and molecular investigations of lipomatous neoplasms has contributed to a better understanding of the biology of these neoplasms and led to a modification of conventional classification schemes.
The intracranial space is divided into two large compartments by the tentorium.
The hydrostatic pressure of spinal fluid is responsible for buoyancy of the brain within these compartments.
In patients with craniectomy this equilibrium is exposed to atmospheric pressure.
We report on four cases of reversible herniation after either bilateral or unilateral decompressive craniectomy performed for increased intracranial pressure (ICP) and failure of conservative ICP treatment.
All four patients had survived a severe neurological disease (encephalitis, subdural haematoma, stroke) which required craniectomy to control raised ICP.
All were successfully weaned from the ventilator and awake and CT scans showed no space-occupying lesion anymore.
The patients showed a typical "sunken pattern" at the trepanation site.
All patients developed clinical signs of transtentorial herniation (i.e.
unilateral dilated pupils, deteriorated alertness, and extensor posturing) shortly after either diagnostic or presumed therapeutic lumbar puncture.
One patient developed herniation a second time while in the typical 30 ° upright position.
After craniectomy, transtentorial herniation is possible even in the absence of increased ICP.
It is related to a negative gradient between atmospheric and intracranial pressure, which is enhanced by changes in the CSF compartment following lumbar puncture.
Lumbar puncture should be avoided if possible and, when necessary, only be performed in the head-down position.
Acute therapy in these cases is quite simple; it requires flat or even head-down positioning and early cranioplasty.
Diseases of the oral cavity, floor of the mouth, and nervous system can be accompanied by disturbances in tongue movement during swallowing.
These disturbances can be diagnosed by videosonography whereby the examiner has to evaluate extensive video documentation of lingual motion.
It was the aim of this study to facilitate this evaluation by the application of a reproducible computer-assisted quantitative analysis procedure.
Video sequences of 56 healthy adults and 19 patients with dysphagias of different etiologies were analysed.
A numerical estimation of swallowing movements was carried out in abstraction from the structures imaged (bolus, air, muscles of the tongue, floor of the mouth, hyoid, etc.).
Intensity changes of the pixels within previously defined radial image sectors were quantified in relationship to time and depicted as sector curves.
The healthy adults demonstrated a characteristic pattern of two motion maxima that appeared within almost all sector curves.
These maxima represented bolus transport movements and the reset movement of the tongue.
Patients with diseases of the tongue or neuromuscular changes caused by disturbances of the central nervous system showed pathological deviations on videosonography.
These appeared as local or general reductions in movement, slow speed motions, repetitive swallowing or unsorted additional movements of the tongue during swallowing.
Clinically-used ketamine is a racemic mixture of two isomers, S-(+)- and R-(-)-ketamine.
Previous investigations showed the anaesthetic potency of S-(+)-ketamine to be three times higher than that of R-(-)-ketamine.
It was the aim of this study to compare the effects of S-(+)-ketamine and racemic ketamine on endocrine and cardiovascular parameters, recovery, and side effects in geriatric patients during total intravenous anaesthesia (TIVA) for orthopaedic surgery.
Forty patients over 60 years of age scheduled for elective hip or knee replacement were investigated in a double-blind, randomised design.
For induction of TIVA, patients received 0.1 mg midazolam, 0.5 mg atropine, 1 mg/kg S(+)-ketamine or 2 mg/kg racemic ketamine, respectively, 2 mg vecuronium, and 1.5 mg/kg suxamethonium.
After intubation and relaxation with a total dose of 0.1 mg/kg vecuronium, a continuous infusion of 2 mg/kg per hour S-(+)- or 4 mg/kg per hour racemic ketamine was administered throughout surgery.
Blood samples were taken through a central venous catheter at seven time-points, before induction as well during and after surgery, until the 1st postoperative morning for analysis of adrenaline, noradrenaline (by high-pressure liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection), anti-diuretic hormone (ADH), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol (by radioimmunoassay), glucose, and lactate.
In addition, systolic arterial pressure (SAP), heart rate (HR), and arterial oxygen saturation were measured, and the time intervals between the end of ketamine infusion and the return of consciousness and orientation were protocolled.
The incidence and assessment of dreams and other side effects were reported by the patients.
Biometric data of the groups were comparable, the mean age of both groups being 68 years.
Plasma adrenaline, noradrenaline, ADH, ACTH, cortisol, and glucose as well as SAP and HR increased significantly (P<0.05) during the course of anaesthesia.
The influence on lactate levels was not significant.
There were no differences between S-(+)- and racemic ketamine with respect to these parameters.
Three patients in the ketamine-racemate group showed severe arterial hypertension and were withdrawn from the study.
Recovery clearly improved after administration of S-(+)-ketamine compared to the racemate.
Simple orders were followed after 2.0 +/- 3.4 versus 4.9 +/- 6.8 min (P=0.07), orientation with respect to person returned after 5.7 +/- 4.0 versus 14.6 +/- 10.0 min (P<0.001) and spatial orientation after 8.2 +/- 5.4 versus 17.4 +/- 9.7 min (P<0.001).
After racemic ketamine, 1 patient remembered a negative dream and 1 patient a positive dream.
In the S-(+)-group, 1 positive dream was reported.
No intraoperative awareness was reported, and all patients would accept the same anaesthesia again.
Increases in cardiovascular parameters and insufficient reduction of the stress response with respect to ADH, ACTH, and cortisol seem to require a more potent hypnotic element during TIVA with ketamine.
With regard to endocrine and cardiovascular parameters, the pharmacodynamic effects of racemic and S-(+)-ketamine were comparable.
Because of the significant improvement in recovery and the reduced quantitative drug load, S-(+)-ketamine offers a clinical advantage compared with currently used racemic ketamine.
The closure of large circular defects on the scalp is technically difficult and cosmetically often not satisfying, if a free transplant is necessary.
Following the technique of Tillmann described first in 1908, several flaps shaped like a windmill can be combined.
We report on 14 patients (ages 41-88 years) where large defects resulting from the excision of various tumors (5 melanomas, 5 basal cell carcinomas, 1 keratoacanthoma, 1 trichilemmal cyst, 1 squamous cell carcinoma, 1 skin metastasis) were successfully closed by this method.
The diameter of the defect ranged between 4 and 8 cm (mean 5,7 cm).
Size and number of the rotating flaps (3 or 4) was varied according to the size of the defect and the mobility of the surrounding tissue.
The procedure was performed with local anesthesia in all cases.
Wound healing occurred without complications except in 3 cases.
2 patients (63 years, 70 years) developed small necrotic areas on the tips of the flaps.
In a 74 year old man with a very large defect of 8 cm diameter, one flap of four underwent total necrosis.
The cosmetic result was rated "very good" in 71,4% and "good" in 14,3%.
The preservation of the terminal hair turned out to be of special advantage.
The "windmill procedure" is an important addition to the surgical approaches for closure of large defects on the scalp, particularly in young patients.
Intimal sarcoma of the pulmonary artery is an extremely rare type of malignant tumor of the large vessels.
Despite systematic diagnostics, distinguishing between pulmonary emboli and tumors is difficult.
We report a patient who was referred because of suspected embolic occlusion of the pulmonary artery.
The operation was started with the intention of performing a pulmonary artery thromboendarterectomy; however, intraoperative histology revealed a malignant mesenchymal tumor.
Therefore, the left lung was resected with the use of extracorporeal circulation, and the pulmonary trunk and right pulmonary artery were reconstructed.
A solitary right lung metastasis was resected 3 months later using stapling devices.
Complete surgical resection is the treatment of choice for patients with sarcoma of the pulmonary arteries.
Surgical therapy often includes extensive reconstructive measures.
Since, thromboembolic obstruction cannot be excluded preoperatively, patients with this type of disease should be treated at centers experienced with the broad spectrum of pulmonary artery surgery.
Abstract  A rare cause of painful swelling of the knee cavity can be an aneurysm of the popliteal vein.
Only 28 cases are reported in the literature.
We treated a 20-year-old male patient who underwent three arthroscopies, one operation and one MRI; finally, phlebography detected a popliteal vein aneurysm and a malformation of the deep venous system of the popliteal and proximal calf veins.
To avoid the threat of pulmonary embolism a resection of the aneurysm with interposition of a venous autograft was performed.
Twelve months after the operation the patient is free of symptoms with a patent autograft.
Hearing aids have fundamental disadvantages: (1) stigmatization of the patient; (2) the sound is often found to be unsatisfactory due to the limited frequency range and undesired distortion; (3) in many patients, the ear canal fitting device generally necessary leads to an occlusion effect; (4) acoustic feedback when amplification is high.
Conventional hearing aids transmit sound into the ear canal via a small microphone.
Sound has the disadvantage of requiring high output sound pressure levels for its transmission.
This along with the necessary miniaturization of the loudspeaker as well as the resonances and reflections in the closed ear canal contribute to the disadvantages mentioned.
In contrast, implantable hearing aids do not make sound signals but micromechanical vibrations.
An implantable hearing aid has an electromechanical transducer instead of the loudspeaker of a conventional hearing aid.
The hearing signal does not leave the transducer as sound but as a mechanical vibration which is directly coupled to the auditory system bypassing the air.
This implantable hearing aid is either coupled to the tympanic membrane, the ossicular chain, the perilymph of the inner ear, or the skull.
Corneal cells are known to participate in the regulation of local inflammatory processes by secretion of cytokines.
As the corneal endothelium may be exposed to endotoxin in organ culture and endotoxin is known to trigger inflammatory reactions, we investigated the effect of endotoxin from E. coli on organ cultured donor corneae with respect to autocrine and paracrine functions and the endothelial viability and density.
For the majority of patients with sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) many available hearing aids often do not achieve satisfactory results.
For these patients partially implantable hearing devices have been developed, allowing distortion-free hearing and speech intelligibility that may be superior to conventional hearing aids.
The external parts of partial implants, however, may result in a patient's stigmatization.
Furthermore, they do not use the acoustic properties of the external auditory canal.
Recently, we published the successful development of the first totally implantable hearing device for the treatment of SNHL (HNO 46 [1998] 853-863).
Here we report the first implantations of this unique, totally implantable electronic hearing system in patients with SNHL: Implex TICA LZ 3001.
The implant microphone is implanted subcutaneously in the outer ear canal near the ear drum.
The signal is processed by a digitally programmable multichannel audioprocessor located subcutaneously on the bony skull behind the ear.
A piezoelectric transducer is coupled to the body of the incus and drives the ossicular chain by vibratory actions.
Energy is provided by an implantable battery.
Implanted patients describe hearing as being distortion-free and transparent.
Speech intelligibility and the hearing of music are improved.
Patients may achieve better speech discrimination, especially in the presence of background noise.
The aid can be used during sports, including swimming.
To our knowledge, this is the first report of the implantation of a totally implantable electronic hearing system in patients.
These results encourage further implantations of the totally implantable hearing system in the course of an ongoing clinical study.
Catheter ablation by means of radiofrequency energy (RF) is an established method in the treatment of various forms of supraventricular and atrioventricular tachycardias.
In patients with ventricular tachycardia (VT), the success of catheter ablation depends on the pathophysiological mechanism of the arrhythmia and on the underlying heart disease.
In the following report we give a definition of the terms nomenclature and classification.
We find out, that the two terms are very similar.
They include the keys for diagnosis and therapy.
We propose a method to construct new coding-systems.
Furthermore we report about the existing coding-systems in Orthopaedics and Traumatology.
We cite a list of national and international coding-systems.
Because of the actuality we finally give a definition of the term "Indikationsspezifische Komplikation", which is of importance since the "5.
Änderungsverordnung" of the "BPFLV-95" within the classification of the "Fallpauschalen".
"Fallpauschalen" are a system like the American DRG's (Diagnosis related groups), but not exacly the same.
Resection of a stenosing colon tumor in an 89-year-old male patient led to the diagnosis, unusual at this age, of an inflammatory pseudotumor (synonym: plasma cell granuloma) of the retroperitoneum and mesentery, which invaded the large bowel and showed infiltration of one regional lymph node.
Histology and immunohistochemistry (demonstrating a myofibroblastic phenotype of the proliferating spindle cells and polyclonality of abundantly present plasma cells) of the specimen resembled previously reported lesions in various locations.
The etiology and exact nosological classification of inflammatory pseudotumors are not yet unequivocally settled.
The recently published conjecture that such lesions of the retroperitoneum represent a separate entity with features of a malignant neoplasm is discussed.
An example of a plexiform fibrohistiocytic tumour (PFT) is presented for the first time in the German-language literature.
The diagnostic criteria for this rare soft-tissue neoplasm of childhood and young adulthood, which is mostly subcutaneous in location and has a tendency to recur, include the plexiform structure which gives it its name, extensive siderin deposits and numerous osteoclast-like giant cells.
The development of the tumour described here, which occurred in the field of radiation of a malignant haemangiopericytoma excised 7 years previously, indicates the possibility of induction of PFT by radiation.
The current increase in the cost of health care must be considered as a severe threat to the prehospital emergency services system.
Two examples have been selected - the patient with polytrauma and the patient in cardiac arrest - to demonstrate the dilemma between a need for objective data and the requirements of emergency patients.
Study results obtained in trauma patients indicating that total prehospital time, including scene time, is correlated to patient outcome have led to the conclusion that at the scene treatment by emergency physicians may be dispensable.
It has, however also been demonstrated that the time required for medical treatment at the scene is equivalent to 20% of the total scene time, thus representing only a fraction of the total prehospital time.
Correlating the total prehospital time or scene time to outcome therefore appears absurd.
The treatment principle of aggressive shock treatment in polytrauma needs critical reevaluation on the basis of results obtained by recent preclinical studies in patients with penetrating torso injuries.
Small volume resuscitation could not be demonstrated to improve outcome in polytrauma patients, although a slight improvement in patients with brain injury may be assumed.
Endotracheal intubation and early artificial ventilation are proven therapeutic principles in polytraumatized patients.
Unfortunately, for ethical reasons randomised carefully controlled comparative studies can not be performed in polytrauma patients unless the patient is fully conscious.
The importance of endotracheal intubation and artificial ventilation in unconscious trauma patients becomes apparent under conditions of anaesthesia where the application of the endotracheal tube averts regurgitation, aspiration and concomitant morbidity and mortality.
The common causes of cardiovascular collapse and their pathomechanisms, as well as the mechanisms of cardiopulmonary resuscitation, have been widely investigated.
Nevertheless, various aspects of their application are still controversial.
The most recent study results have recommended initial ventilation prior to thoracic compression.
New methods of assisting mechanical cardiopulmonary resuscitation, such as ACD CPR or vest CPR, have shown promising results in animal experiments.
However, the importance of results obtained by preclinical randomised controlled investigations in humans need to be confirmed by further studies as to outcome.
The efficacy of defibrillation in cases of ventricular fibrillation has been clearly demonstrated, particularly with a view to the interval between ventricular fibrillation and defibrillation.
It has further been demonstrated that basic cardiopulmonary resuscitation preserves ventricular fibrillation and thus improves the chance of survival.
The present generation of defibrillators has been further improved, particularly by the introduction of biphasic defibrillator wave forms, which may reduce the required energy, as well as possible complications, while offering an increase in the efficacy of defibrillation and a reduction in defibrillator size.
Scientific emergency medicine is responsible not only for the development and validation of new methods and concepts, but in particular for their application under quality control conditions.
Politicians require an improvement in the quality of the validation of emergency measures, although the instruments available for the investigation of these measures are known to be obsolete (experimental models, experimental design).
Additionally, the financial support of research in emergency medicine suffers from being accourded low priority by public research funds such as the German Research Fund.
However, in view of the rapid application of experimental results to daily practice it should be emphasized that patients also support research in emergency medicine via their direct financial contributions to the health insurance companies.
The prognosis in patients with gynecologic cancers depends not only on the stage but also on a wide spectrum of other findings.
Cross-sectional imaging modalities, including sonography, CT and MRI, have increasingly been used for optimal treatment planning in gynecologic cancers.
Their staging criteria are based on the well-established FIGO staging system.
CT and MRI compete with sonography, which plays a pivotal role in the evaluation of the female pelvis.
This paper reviews the role of sonography, CT and MRI in the staging of gynecologic malignancies.
It puts the emphasis on MRI, which has been established as imaging modality of choice in the preoperative evaluation of cervical and endometrial cancer, and which seems slightly superior to CT in the staging of ovarian cancer.
Extraabdominal desmoids represent one group of deep fibromatoses.
These aggressive nonmetastasizing tumorlike lesions have a strong tendency to local infiltration, with a recurrence rate of about 40 %.
Trauma, hormones and heredity have been implicated as etiologic factors.
Shoulder, chest wall, back and thigh are favored sites.
By combination of different diagnostic procedures the number of differential diagnoses can be reduced to only a few.
While in former times surgery was thought to be the only kind of therapy, nowadays adjuvant procedures like radiation, hormonal therapy and also chemotherapy are becoming more and more important.
Amputation or other mutilating procedures should be done only if the tumor recurs repeatedly.
Katayama syndrome is an allergic reaction of antigens of schistosomes, known as the acute phase of schistosomiasis.
We report on an eleven year-old boy, who was seen at our outpatient department because of cough and oedema of the face after travelling to Malawi.
Remarkable findings were an eosinophilia and antibodies against schistosoma-antigens.
Six weeks later the diagnosis was confirmed by detecting eggs of Schistosoma haematobium in the urine.
Parasitological examinations of urine and faeces four months later were negative.
There is still a significant lack of treatment and rehabilitation facilities for chronic pain patients in Germany today.
Most of all the treatment of low back pain and widespread pain syndromes or panalgesia is time consuming and complicated.
The main problem of anaesthesiological pain clinics is the increase of these complex pain syndromes in the last years.
The definition of chronic pain is a contiuous noxious input modulated and compounded by the prolonged or recurrent nature of chronic state and further complicated by a multitude of economic and psychosocial factors.
It is now clear that no one discipline or mode will suffice.
Only a multidisciplinary and intensive approache will prevail, as discussed in this article.
Unfortunately these multidisciplinary pain units are nearly not existing in Gemany just as little as control of the effectiveness of pain treatment.
The use of somato-sensory evoked potentials (SEP) in supraaortal reconstructions has been well accepted.
However, reports about incidence and clinical significance of ischaemic SEP alterations differ widely.
In a prospective study we registered SEP alterations during 482 operations done on 419 patients between 1 July 1994, and 31 December 1996.
Incidence, risk factors and clinical relevance were investigated.
In only 1.7% of cases SEP examination was inadequate.
During 406 operations SEP were altered minimally or not at all.
Significant changes were dedected during 65 interventions (13.5%).
The clinical outcome was poor when alteration was found during carotid dissection (five events, three deficits).
Cross-clamping ischaemia was the common reason for alterations (81.5%); they were generally reversible after shunting and without clinical significance.
As risk factor for cross-clamping ischaemia, only contralateral carotid occlusion was identified.
Tyrosine-rich crystalloids in tumors of the salivary glands are rare and have been reported mainly in specimens from Black African patients.
The pathogenesis of these structures is still unclear, but pathological secretion by neoplastic myoepithelial cells is supposed.
Millon's staining and ultrastructural examinations are used for confirming the diagnosis.
We present the case report of a 59-year-old woman with a myoepithelioma of the minor salivary glands in the smooth palate containing tyrosine-rich crystalloids as an example of this rare phenomenon.
Pseudoarthrosis and cubitus valgus as main complications following displaced fractures of the radial condyle in children can be prevented by open reduction and fixation by K wires.
However, delayed union and stimulation of the radial physis with condylar overgrowth and varisation of the elbow as well as fishtail deformities of the distal end of the humerus are reported nevertheless.
To prevent those growth disturbances all primary and secondary (4-day X-ray control) displaced fractures of the radial condyle, i. e. those with a central gap of more than 2 mm, were prospectively treated by open reduction and osteosynthesis with a metaphyseal lag screw beginning 1974.
Sixty-six patients (41 boys, 25 girls) with an average follow-up of 10 years (2-22 years) sustained 28 primary and 6 secondary displaced fractures.
In 5 cases a K wire fixation was performed in view of the smallness of the fragment.
Two children with conservative treatment following overlooked displaced fractures showed condylar overgrowth and varisation of the elbow.
Screw osteosynthesis led to symmetric elbow angles and function in all cases, whereas fishtail deformities could be observed in 8 of 27 children, probably as a consequence of the remaining central fracture instability.
Conclusion: Open reduction and osteosynthesis with a metaphyseal lag screw prevents condylar overgrowth in displaced fractures of the radial condyle by guaranteeing fracture healing in anatomic position within 3-4 weeks.
However, fishtail deformity can not be prevented by metaphyseal compression only.
A commercially available C1 inhibitor (C1-INH) concentrate was used for short-term prophylaxis before surgery in two patients with hereditary angioneurotic oedema.
The patients suffered from recurrent subcutaneous and submucosal oedema of the face, extremities, and gastrointestinal tract as the result of a hereditary C1-INH deficiency.
Both patients were receiving tranexamic acid or danazol therapy as oral long-term prophylaxis.
Over the years the patients underwent several operations in regional and general anaesthesia, with mask ventilation or intubation.
The C1-INH plasma concentrations measured preoperatively were always very low (0.02-0.06 g/l, normal range 0.15-0.35 g/l), despite the oral long-term prophylaxis.
Substitution treatment with 500-1000 U C1-INH was performed 1 h before surgery.
No side effects were seen following the concentrate infusions.
With this substitution treatment no specific symptoms of hereditary angioneurotic oedema were recognized in either case.
The measurement of C1-INH plasma concentration 2 h or 4 h after C1-INH substitution showed a marked rise in both patients, though normal values were not reached in either.
We suggest that infusion of C1 concentrate is an appropriate form of preoperative substitution treatment in patients with hereditary angioneurotic oedema, in view of the lower risk of infection than with infusion of fresh-frozen plasma and the observed effectiveness.
This case report describes a 62 years old patient who suffered from therapy resisten atrial fibrillation for 12 years.
She underwent "Cox/Maze-III-Procedure" during a mitral valve reconstruction and a stable sinus rhythm was achieved.
Two years after operation she has been in a stable sinus rhythm.
Transesophageal echocardiography revealed normal cardiac dimensions and function with coordinated atrioventricular contractility.
Therefore the therapy with anticoagulants and antiarrhythmics could be discontinued.
Two cases of congenital wandering spleen with typical clinical course are reported:  An 11-year old girl had a two month history of intermittent abdominal pain predominantly after physical stress.
In upright position a palpable resistance could be identified as wandering spleen by ultrasound and scintiscan, and in this case splenopexy was performed.
An otherwise healthy 3-year old girl suffered from acute abdomen caused by torsion of an upside- down spleen with partial infarction.
Diagnosis was made based on ultrasound and CT-Scan.
The extent of infarction could be evaluated by color flow sonography.
After partial resection splenopexy in orthotopic position was performed.
Discussion: In situations of intermittent abdominal pain as well as acute abdomen torsion of wandering spleen should be taken into consideration.
Monodisciplinary orthopaedic pain therapy no longer measures up to international standards.
In cases of chronic back pain, in particular, there is such a gulf between the clinical findings and the patient's subjective assessment that the symptoms cannot be attributed solely to so-called degenerative changes.
Back pain patients are in great danger of becoming fixated on somatic symptoms due to an excess of diagnostic procedures or incorrect diagnoses, of being treated purely somatically on the basis of associated findings, and of suffering irreversible damage from invasive management of such findings.
Despite the wealth of empirical evidence, it remains difficult to expand the everyday concept of illness and its causes to include not only physical and biological factors but also social and emotional disturbances.
Particularly physicians with a purely biological concept of pain have not learned to take note of affective relational factors and incorporate them into their diagnostic assessment.
The decision to undertake invasive diagnostic or therapeutic procedures then frequently represents the doctor's reaction to feelings of irritation or helplessness.
If this situation is to change, an interdisciplinary concept of pain must be made a part of medical training, and scientific findings must be presented in such a way that they can be integrated into routine daily practice.
The laboratory surveillance of measles in Germany contributes to an objective estimation of the situation.
Compared to data of the pre-vaccination era, the incidence of measles has been reduced, while a shift in age towards the group of 15-year-olds is observed.
Germany will have considerable difficulties to reach the aim of eradicating measles in the European region by the year 2007.
Apart from the fact that systematic surveillance is lacking, the immunity gaps in small children represent a particularly weak spot.
In order to effectively control measles, high vaccination rates of at least 90% are necessary by the end of the second year of life.
In addition, laboratory surveillance has to be included to measure successful vaccination.
Main focusses are the laboratory confirmation of suspected measles cases, seroprevalence studies of population immunity as well as the control of the circulation of measles viruses.
The Working Group Measles ("Arbeitsgemeinschaft Masern" - AGM) as well as the amended law on infection prevention are important instruments to make measurable progress towards measles eradication also in Germany.
We report on the activities of the National Reference Centre for Measles, Mumps and Rubella since 1991.
The German data are compared to those of selected other European countries.
The different methods that are available for the assessment and quantification of "brittle nails" and for the evaluation of various therapeutical approaches are compared.
At this time, measurement of the swelling properties is the best documented and most reliable method for studying the treatment of brittle nails.
Reliable qualitative data can also be obtained by scanning electron microscopy.
Measurement of the transonychial water loss and assessment of thickness and density of nails by ultrasound have also been used successfully, but the methodology still has to be improved and the reproducibility, confirmed.
The case of a closed elbow dislocation with complete rupture of the brachial artery and its veins is described.
This combination of injuries is rather rare and only 25 cases were found in the literature.
The sharp lesion of the vessels was remarkable, probably due to the edge of the distally ruptured capsule.
Immediate revision with suture of the vessels and an immobilization for three weeks gave a good result.
The management of multiple trauma patients has improved recently.
Surgeons' education, preclinical rescue structures, initial clinical survey and therapeutic strategies, as well as diagnostic imaging, have progressed.
Plain film imaging is increasingly being abandoned in favor of CT. Fast imaging techniques (spiral CT) have led to the inclusion of CT in the primary survey.
To minimize the risk to the patient during prolonged diagnostic time, algorithms have to be defined concerning structures, emergency room equipment and quality.
Basics, state of the art and suggestions concerning management of multiple trauma patients are presented and discussed from the radiologist's point of view.
The importance of hepatitis C virus infection has been recently noted in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy or dilated cardiomyopathy.
In a collaborative research project of the Committees for the Study of Idiopathic Cardiomyopathy, hepatitis C virus antibody was found in 74 of 697 patients (10.65) with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and in 42 of 663 patients (6.3%) with dilated cardiomyopathy; these prevalences were significantly higher than that found in volunteer blood donors in Japan.
Hepatitis C virus antibody was detected in 650 of 11,967 patients (5.4%) seeking care in 5 academic hospitals.
Various cardiac abnormalities were found, and arrhythmias were the most frequent.
These observations suggest that hepatitis C virus infection is an important cause of a variety of otherwise unexplained heart diseases.
Transdifferentiated retinal pigment epithelial cells (RPE) display enhanced contractile potentials and have been implicated in the development of tractional retinal detachment.
This study determines the activity of contraction-promoting factors, examines some involved mechanisms and evaluates inhibitors.
Using an in vitro contractionassay, we demonstrated that collagen matrix contraction by transdifferentiated RPE cells is effectively stimulated by serum, platelet-derived growth factor and insulin-like growth factor-1.
Endothelin-1 and transforming growth factor-1 and -2 have a more discrete or marginal effect.
Tractional forces promoted by these peptides are completely protein synthesis dependent.
Contraction stimulated by serum is only partly dependent on de novo protein synthesis, suggesting different active factors and/or pathways.
Staurosporine, a broad-spectrum kinase inhibitor, effectively inhibited collagen matrix contraction by transdifferentiated RPE cells regardless of the promoter.
Revascularization in cases of recurrent occlusions following aorto-iliac vascular reconstructions, particular in high-risk patients, poses a therapeutic dilemma.
We report the case of a 78-year-old female patient who presented - after multiple vascular reconstructions of iliac and femoral arteries - with Leriche syndrome, resulting critical limb ischemia and concomitant coronary and lung disease.
Due to the high surgical and anesthetic risk we implanted an axillo-bifemoral PTFE graft.
The preoperative angiography of the supraaortic branches revealed a high-grade stenosis of the right subclavian artery in the presence of a previously implanted carotid-subclavian bypass on the left.
This stenosis was dilated and then stented by way of the proximal end of the axillo-bifemoral graft, which in turn was distally anastomosed to the right popliteal and left deep femoral artery.
Postoperative angiography verified a good run-off and satisfactory vascular status was obtained.
Duplex sonography 6 months after surgery showed a good flow and the patient was free of symptoms.
These results demonstrate that, combined with intraoperative stent application, an axillo-bifemoral graft can be implanted with good results.
Objective: Concerning the long-term somatic development of children born with very low birth weight and/or born very premature, there are varying and sometimes contradictory statements.
A follow-up study was carried out on premature-born children from Thuringia and Saxonia at pre-school and early school age in order to investigate the long-term somatic development of these children.
Anthropological parameters were examined and compared with the data of a reference group.
Mediastinitis caused by infection with Clostridium perfringens and spontaneous rupture of the esophagus are both life threatening conditions.
The combination of these two entities led to septic multiorgan failure in a 38-year-old woman.
The patient was treated successfully by esophagectomy and postoperative lavage through a partially open abdomen.
The lack of information regarding emesis, the leading symptom of Boerhaave's syndrome, caused delayed diagnosis: the triad of emesis, severe epigastric pain and emphysema of the skin was not established until 30 h after the onset of symptoms.
For ethical and socio-economical reasons (cost-explosion in transfusion-medicine, patient's individual destiny), devepolment and consistent application of allogeneic transfusion sparing techniques in surgery is a chal- lenge to anesthesiologists, surgeons and blood-bankers.
The combination of different techniques, i.e.
autologous predonation, hemodilution, choice of anesthetic regimen, deliberate hypotension, application of anti-fibrinolytic agents and autotransfusion of intraoperatively saved blood allow for avoidance of allogeneic blood transfusion even in patients presenting important intraoperative hemorrhage.
Introduction: If the surgeon cannot find the tendon of the superior oblique muscle in the right place, he has to change his operative plans intraoperatively.
Different procedures are recommended: reinsertion of the superior oblique in the right place, recession of the inferior oblique muscle, and operations on the vertical muscles of the same or the yoke eye.
No quantitative recommendations on the surgical amount are mentioned in the literature.
In 180 children (87 children belonging to a control group, 68 with fever of non-renal origin, and 25 with pyelonephritis) albumin and immunoglobulin G (markers for glomerular dysfunction), -1-microglobulin and  -NAG (markers for proximal tubular dysfunction) and apolipoprotein A1 (marker of 'postrenal' dysfunction) were measured in second-voided morning urine.
In children with fever of non-renal origin, glomerular dysfunction was encountered in 8.8 %, tubular dysfunction in 17.6 % and mixed glomerular-tubular dysfunction in 14.7 % of cases.
Among children with pyelonephritis, 28 % revealed glomerular dysfunction and 44 % mixed glomerular-tubular dysfunction.
No case of solitary proximal tubular dysfunction was observed in children with pyelonephritis.
There were highly significant differences in presence and expression of glomerular dysfunction between children with fever of non-renal origin and children with pyelonephritis (P < 0.0001), whereas with regard to proximal tubular dysfunction, the differences were only moderately significant ( -NAG: P < 0.01) or of low significance (-1-microglobulin: P < 0.05).
This may indicate that morphologic changes occur during interstitial pyelonephritis due to inflammation of glomeruli, resulting in glomerular dysfunction, while proximal tubular dysfunction may additionally be due to fever-associated function processes.
Up to the middle of the 1970s, chemotherapy had only a marginal role in the overall treatment concept for cervical carcinoma, and surgery and radiotherapy are still the cornerstones of treatment today.
There are indications for chemotherapy, which can theoretically be used as follows:
We compared a cw carbon dioxide flash-scanning laser system to an Er:YAG laser in laser skin resurfacing of facial rhytides.
In all patients, CO2 laser treatment showed a better cosmetic result whereas erythema and postinflammatory hyperpigmentation were less marked in Er:YAG laser therapy.
A separation of the individual latex layers is a known complication of endotracheal armoured tubes manufactured by immersion technique.
This can result in herniation into the lumen with obstruction of the tube.
Diffusion of nitrous oxide into the inner hernia considerably intensifies the obstruction.
This can lead to life-threatening situations.
We observed a similar herniation caused by layer separation with subsequent tube obstruction of silicolatex anaesthesia tubes used in paediatric circuit systems.
This is caused by manufacturing defects and above all by damage incurred in reprocessing.
Therefore it is important to process the tubes carefully.
A too-high drying temperature can cause premature layer separation.
The tubes should never be processed more than 80 times.
Routine examination of the tubes is imperative, especially at the predilection sites for layer separation.
Severe aortic valve disease is a rare complication of coarctation in adults.
Between 1961 and 1990 aortic valve replacement was performed after or combined with the operation of coarctation in 24 adults (4% of entire population operated for coarctation).
Bicuspid aortic valves were present in 2/3 of patients.
In 10 patients (710 with aortic stenosis) coarctation was operated early (mean age 24 years) and aortic valve late (mean age 40 years): in 14 (1014 with aortic regurgitation, mean age 40 years) aortic valve and coarctation were operated simultaneously (8 patients) or staged within 6 months (6 patients).
Additional surgical interventions on the dilated aorta ascendens were performed in 8, mitral valve replacement in 2 and aorto-coronary bypass in 1 patients.
Early mortality was 224 (8%) and was similar in simultaneously (18) and staged (114) operated cases: 10 year survival was lower than in an age-matched group of 72 patients with aortic valve disease of similar severity operated during the same period (70% vs 88%, p < 0.01): 67 late deaths were cardia; 55 pts with preoperatively severely increased end-diastolic (> 199 mlm2) and 44 with end-systolic (> 90 mlm2) left ventricular volumes and 22 with ejection fraction < 41 % died late postoperatively.
Abstract  13 experienced addiction therapists provid-ed information about trauma experiences and comorbidity of 122 clients (26 women and 96 men) with opiate addiction and multiple substance abuse.
42% had had at least one traumatic life experience and the women had higher percentages than men.
The victimization primarely took place during childhood and prior to the begin of drug consumption.
26% of the trauma victims were diagnosed as having post-traumatic stress disorder.
In comparison with individuals without trauma experiences, victims evidenced significantly more comorbid symptoms, they more frequently suffered from polytoxicomania and had more experiences with psychotherapy.
Nearly all drugs currently used during the course of general anaesthesia may lead to hypersensitivity reactions of various types.
There may be an acute type I allergic reactions or to a more or less severe pseudoallergic reactions, in rare cases with lethal outcome.
Routine preoperative testing appears of little predictive value, in spite of the high frequency of so-called risk factors (atopy, other kind of allergy) among the evaluated group of patients.
Careful allergological testing should be performed 4 to 6 weeks after any incidents of suspected drug intolerance, in order to discover the underlying causative agent.
Skin testing is of diagnostic value for neuromuscular blockers and intravenous narcotics.
RAST- and RIA-tests and/or mediator releasing tests may also used additionally.
Together with all other administered drugs, all the routinely used neuromuscular blockers (suxamethonium, vecuronium, pancuronium, alcuronium, atracurium, mivacurium) should be tested, since they often represent the cause for such reactions.
For other classes of drugs (for example, volatile anesthetics and opioids) the clinical relevance of skin testing still remains uncertain.
For less severe incidents seen during general anaesthesia such as pruritus, or exanthems, skin testing seems to be less relevant.
Nociception is a protective system of the body which prevents it from injury and tissue damage.
Human beings respond to noxious stimuli by moving away.
They learn by pain to avoid these situations in future.
Shortly after major injury, there is a limited analgesic period allowing the body to flee the area of danger, later on, emerging pain compels the body to rest and supports recuperation.
While acute pain has a certain meaning, chronic pain does not.
It induces a comprehensive suffering including loss of initiative, appetite and vigilance.
It reduces life-quality, often accompanied by depressive moods.
Acute pain causes changes in the central nervous system leading to an increased sensitivity of nociception (hyperalgesia).
During healing, the central processing of noxious stimuli is normalised taking minutes to weeks.
Sometimes, unknown factors initiate chronification of pain.
Changes on a molecular level in peripheral tissue as well as in the central nervous system induce "cellular early genes" [24], a synthesis of c-fos, c-jun and other proteins favouring the chronification of pain.
All efforts have to be made to depress or interrupt such a development.
One of the first steps to pain prophylaxis in a hospital is an optimal surgical technique: incision, extension, limited tissue damage and minimal invasive surgery should guarantee the smallest impairment of the nociceptive system possible.
However, nociceptive input is intense and of long duration and leads to central sensibilisation.
Postoperative pain has lost its function as surgery anticipates healing.
Pain induces a reduction of ventilation, circulation, digestion and increases the risk of other disorders.
There is need of aggressive pain treatment for humanitarian reasons and for reasons of late sequelae like permanent pain and increased reduction of function [10].
This is of pivotal importance in patients with amputations or sympathetic reflex dystrophy (SRD).
Antinociception is best provided by regional anaesthesia technique with a combination of local anaesthetics and opioids which results in better outcome [2, 12].
Hence, regional anaesthesia techniques are strongly indicated in those patients.
Good antinociception may be even more important than it is assumed today.
Anand [1] demonstrated a lower morbidity and mortality in 45 newborns undergoing cardiothoracic surgery, when general anaesthesia was performed with high-dose sufentanil versus halothane supplementary doses of morphine.
Anaesthesiologists have to reconsider the quality of general anaesthesia: the antinociception of their regimen.
In diagnostics of erectile dysfunction there are different simple or large-scale procedures available.
Refering to a three-step-scheme that makes difference in the diagnostics in I. non-invasive, II.
invasive procedures the current diagnostic measures will be explained.
To the non-invasive measures do account the extensive patients history taking including the sexual history and the psychological diagnostics, the physical examination and laboratory screenings.
The semi-invasive procedures include the intracavernous injection test with vasoactice substances, the doppler sonography and duplex or color duplex sonography, the corpus-cavernosum-electromyogram (CC-EMG) and other neurophysiological examinations.
The third invasive step contains the dynamic infusion pharmacological cavernosography and cavernosometry (DICC) and the selective pharmacological phallo-arteriography.
The procedures of this step are essentially limited to patients with erectile dysfunction who are planned for surgical interventions.
Technological advances in the last two years in mammalian nuclear transfer techniques and the establishment of human embryonic stem cell lines formed the background of the International Workshop on "Embryonic Stem Cells and Nuclear Transfer Strategies" organized at the Gene Center, Munich, September 1999.
The aim of the meeting was to bring together scientists working in the stem cell field and those working on somatic nuclear transfer techniques to discuss the present status and prospects of both technologies for basic and applied research and future use in medicine and livestock breeding.
"Biology of Embryonic Stem Cells", "Nuclear Transfer Strategies", and "Stem Cell Differentiation - Cell Therapy" were the main topics of the meeting.
It became clear that we are far from understanding the processes involved in stem cell self-renewal and differentiation and the mechanisms resulting in reprogramming of nuclei from somatic cells after transfer into enucleated oocytes.
However, data were presented that showed the enormous potential of the embryonic stem cell technology for tissue transplantation in the future.
Before any use of this technology in combination with any cloning technology for human cell therapy will be possible, further research including animal models and stem cell differentiation approaches in culture (i. e., identification of differentiation factors, selective differentiation strategies, reporter gene assays) is necessary to understand the basic principles of pluripotent stem cell differentiation and the mechanisms involved in reprogramming somatic cell nuclei.
Certain fractures and/or dislocations of the femoral head are known to cause arterial injury and result in post-traumatic osteonecrosis.
However, the more complex etiology of non-traumatic osteonecrosis is multifactorial and includes chemotherapy, radiotherapy, thermal injuries, and especially coagulopathies, which are now commonly observed in these patients.
Intravascular coagulation with fibrin thrombosis begins in the capillaries and sinusoids of the intraosseous microcirculation, and residual venous thrombosis is more likely to occur if there is coexistent hypofibrinolysis.
The aim of our study was to investigate the influence that serum of patients with preeclampsia has on t-PA and PAI-1 expression from human endothelial cells.
For this purpose, we cultured human endothelium cells, gained from umbilical veins, for 24 h with sera of 7 patients with HELLP syndrome and 12 patients with preeclampsia.
The sera of 12 normotensive pregnant patients and 9 non-pregnant women were used as controls.
We then determined t-PA and PAI-1 levels by ELISA, both in the maternal serum and in the supernatant of the endothelial cell cultures.
While t-PA levels were significantly higher in the serum of patients with preeclampsia and HELLP syndrome than in the control group (median: 8.0 ng/ml and 6.2 ng/ml vs 3.9 ng/ml and 3.1 ng/ml), levels of PAI-1 did not show any significant disparity among the different groups.
The supernatant of the endothelial cell cultures demonstrated significantly elevated levels of both t-PA (P<0.001) and PAI-1 (P<0.01) when stimulated with serum gained from patients with preeclampsia or HELLP syndrome.
The increased expression of t-PA and PAI-1 from human endothelium cells after stimulation with the serum of preeclamptic patients must be considered as a sign of increased endothelial cell activation.
Postoperative pain relief can be achieved by several methods, including the use of systemic opioids and regional anaesthesia with intrathecal or epidural opioids or local anaesthetics.
On-demand analgesia using a PCA (patient-controlled analgesia) system is regarded as the ideal option for systemic opioid analgesia.
While PCA devices are not yet commonly used in all recovery units, the use of repetitive boluses on demand is still the most frequent form of administration in postoperative pain therapy.
The objective of the present study was to show if continuous infusion of the opioid tramadol could produce better analgesia than repetitive administration of boluses.
In a study under double-blind conditions 135 ASA I and II patients were assigned at random to group I (infusion group) or group B (bolus group) when they first requested pain treatment after abdominal surgery.
The patients in group I received an initial intravenous loading dose of 100 mg tramadol, followed by an infusion of 12 mg/h tramadol for 24 h; if necessary, repeated boluses of 50 mg tramadol were given.
In group B the patients received a placebo infusion instead of the tramadol infusion; otherwise, the procedure was the same.
Pain relief was monitored by means of a VAS (visual analogue scale) up to 6 h after surgery.
We investigated the retrograde assessment of analgesia by the patients after 6 h, how often repetitive boluses were required, and the amount of analgesics administered in 6 and 24 h. Results.
The pain relief was assessed as excellent or good by 76.5% of group I and 65.6% of group B; 19.1% of group I and 26.9% of group B assessed the analgesic effect as satisfactory; 4.4% of group I and 7.5% of group B complained of insufficient analgesia.
In group I 69.2% requested only one or no repetitive bolus, compared with 40.3% in group B, while two or more boluses were demanded by 30.8% in group I and 59.7% in group B.
The average analgesic consumption after 6 h was 223.5 +/- 53.7 mg tramadol in group I and 176.6 +/- 63.1 mg tramadol in group B, respectively.
After 24 h it was 449.5 +/- 66.0 mg tramadol in group I and 201.6 +/- 83.9 mg tramadol in group B.
While the consumption during the first 6 h was comparable, from then on the consumption in group I increased significantly.
Side effects were reported by 25% in both groups.
They were clinically irrelevant and did not necessitate termination of the clinical trial in any case.
During the study period pulse and blood pressure remained within the normal range and did not show any significant changes.
The fact that the patients in group I requested far fewer repetitive boluses than those in group B and the assessment by the patients led to the conclusion that treatment in the infusion group is better than that in the bolus group.
Concerns that a significantly higher consumption of analgesics would cause unwanted side-effects have proven unfounded.
Six hours after surgery, when analgesia was evaluated by the patients, there was no significant difference between the two groups.
Not until the maintenance infusion had been administered for a further 18 h, was the tramadol consumption within the infusion group significantly higher.
Thus, we should consider continuing unreduced administration of the maintenance infusion 6 h after operation.
The concept of tuberculid was introduced by Darier in 1896.
In contrast to "true" cutaneous tuberculosis, properties of the tuberculids were explained by an hyperergic response to myobacteria or their fragments released from a different site of manifest or passed tuberculous infection.
Key features include a strongly positive tuberculin skin test, evidence of concomitant manifest or past tuberculosis, and prompt response to antituberculous therapy The inability to culture M. tuberculosis or to demonstrate it microscopically from lesional biopsies, together with reports on tuberculid-like eruptions after BCG vaccination, supports this concept.
Clinical manifestations are lichen scrophulosorum, papulo-necrotic tuberculids and erythema induratum of Bazin.
The existence of tuberculids has been questioned, however, because the clinical and histological appearances are not always specific.
An increasing number of case reports on tuberculids, new immunological tests and molecular biology-based techniques for the detection of mycobacteria have shed new light on the tuberculid concept.
Case Report: A 20-year-old female patient was admitted to the hospital because of a pneumothorax.
A secondary amenorrhea was coexisting.
On the abdominal wall and in the anogenital area a maculopapular exanthema was visible.
Chest X-ray and HR-CT showed a interstitial lung disease with high probability of histiocytosis X which was confirmed by biopsies of lung and skin tissue.
The cause of amenorrhea was a histiocytic infiltration of the pituitary stalk.
Conventional "consensus-treatment" for adults with vinblastine, prednisone and etoposide did not prevent relapsing bilateral pneumothoraces.
Treatment was successful with the protocol as proposed by the international study for children.
This treatment is characterized by higher dosage and combination with 6-mercaptopurine.
The prognosis of patients with malignant diseases requiring treatment on intensive care units is poor.
The hospital mortality for mechanically ventilated patients ranges from 70-90% in patients with solid tumors to 75-90% in patients with hematological malignancy and up to 95% in patients after bone marrow transplantation.
The number of patients referred to intensive care units is however increasing, due to improvements in the general treatment of malignant diseases.
This results in controversies about the utilization of intensive care treatment in these patients.
Since the individual outcome can not be predicted prior to initiation of intensive care therapy a general refusal of intensive care treatment seems not justified.
A reevaluation of the patients status after initiation of intensive care treatment based on predefined criteria may however be useful in the decision about continuing intensive care measures.
Patients requiring mechanical ventilation after bone marrow transplantation will not survive if prolonged treatment with vasopressors is necessary and/or sustained hepatic and renal failure is present.
For these patients a withdrawal of further life support may be considered.
Intensive care treatment should be continued in patients not fulfilling these criteria and treatment results are comparable to those in patients without malignant diseases.
For other patients with malignant diseases the use of a new score system developed for patients with cancer can be helpful in the clinical decision making.
On the basis of a solution-oriented marital therapy, the different within-session effects of four different types of questions in systemic therapy (lineal, strategic, circular, and reflexive), as described by Tomm (1989), were tested.
In this single case study, the method of plan analysis (Caspar 1989) was used to categorize the client's reactions to the four types of therapeutic questions.
Lineal and strategic questions were expected to have a stabilizing and restraining effect on the system (i.e.
the client, the clients' interaction, and the therapeutic interaction), whereas circular and reflexive questions were expected to open the system for change.
Interestingly this hypothesis was only supported for the wife, who had the role of the identified client in the therapy and demonstrated a much stronger motivation for change.
For the husband, who preferred the role of a cotherapist and demonstrated only little motivation for change, results were not as predicted.
Some of his reactions were even opposite to the expected therapeutic effects.
Therefore, it is suggested that an interaction effect between questions and the motivation for change can be assumed.
Prerequisites for experimental study designs are extremely difficult to realise under prehospital emergency conditions.
Results obtained in animal experiments always need validation with prehospital or inhospital patient studies.
Investigations related to emergency medicine are, however, an ethical obligation on behalf of the patient.
A retrospective analysis of the available literature should be considered a prerequisite for prospective randomised and controlled studies.
Frequently, a pilot study or feasibility trial needs to precede the actual study.
Informed consent must be obtained for all patient studies.
However, under emergency conditions informed consent cannot always be obtained due to unconsciousness, etc.
Nevertheless, the following principles should be observed: (a) randomised studies are essential, even in emergency medicine; (b) they are ethically acceptable if the treatment provided for the study group is at least equivalent to the therapy for the control group; ( c) only these preconditions guarantee that the patient always receives treatment in accordance with the standard of treatment.
If the patient is unconscious or otherwise unable to give informed consent, the principle of deferred consent is acceptable.
The deferred consent principle should be carefully documented.
A prospective randomized study represents the gold standard for an investigation, even under emergency conditions.
There are different principles of randomization: telephone or telefax randomisation, etc.
Emergency medicine investigations need to be completed within a reasonable time frame which should, as a rule, not exceed 2 years.
Otherwise, too many items might change without being noted.
Curative treatment and the intention to treat are terms employed by ethics committees.
If an investigation does not bear in itself additional risk factors, it does not necessarily have to be brought before the ethics committee.
If, however, for example, the effect of obtaining blood samples is investigated separately for research purposes, the patient needs to be informed and sign the respective agreement.
In Germany the ethics committees have agreed to accept their respective decisions.
For multicentre and multinational studies, however, the ethics committees also need to accept decisions made by non-German ethics committees.
Not all therapeutic principles can serve as the basis of prospective randomized studies because they need to be considered the present standard of care (e.g., endotracheal intubation, etc.).
Nevertheless, the feasibility of a study should be assessed according to the 1-3 rating proposed by the American Heart Association.
In principle, the overall emergency physician protocol does not fulfill scientific requirements.
For all studies, particularly in the prehospital setting, an independent observer should be involved for documentation purposes.
Scores can be of importance for investigating different treatment regimens.
Biases in emergency medicine studies focus on the variability of EMS, personnel qualifications, etc.
This is in part why it is extremely difficult to prove efficacy and efficiency in emergency medicine.
The results of emergency medicine investigations should be published in suitable journals, i.e., journals with a reasonable rating.
New antifungals for oral therapy have improved the chances of healing onychomycoses.
Nevertheless, in daily practice the failure rate is 20-30% both with itraconazole and terbinafine.
In our investigations for the fungicidal effects of terbinafine, we could show that the same strain of Trichophyton rubrum or T. mentagrophytes in the rest period needs 1000 times higher concentration of terbinafine (2,0 to 0,002 µg/ml) for complete fungal killing as in the growth phase.
Thus resting fungi in the nail are not harmed, and if the concentration of terbinafine is lower than the MIC for the fungi, they can cause a relapse.
Itraconazole is a fungistatic agent.
Its concentration in the nail plate must be higher than the MIC for the causative fungi for a long time - 10 to 12 months.
The usual short-term treatment of onychomycosis over 3 months can be insufficient in individual cases such as patients with disorders, e.g.
circulatory disorders or slowed nail growth.
This paper presents an algorithm for automatic switching between atrial tracking and nontracking pacing mode based on a "4 out of 7" concept: if 4 out of 7 atrial intervals are sensed below a critical value, mode switching (MS) is automatically performed.
The technical solution in Medtronic Kappa 700 dual chamber devices is explained together with an evaluation of advantages and possible limitations.
The "4 out of 7" algorithm offers a quick MS; by the addition of a "blanked flutter search" algorithm integrated into this concept, the detection of atrial flutter is facilitated in a wider range of programmed AV intervals.
With the increased rapidity of MS and sensitivity towards atrial flutter detection, there is also an increased propensity to switch to the nontracking mode in case of short atrial runs and frequent premature atrial beats.
Therefore, to optimize the MS function, programming of the device (e.g., activation of a time delay before MS) should be carried out individually with respect to the intrinsic rhythm and arrhythmia of the patient.
Possible interactions between different programmable parameters should also be taken into consideration.
Some guidelines are presented in this paper.
Finally, the use of extended stored diagnostic data seems to be crucial to evaluate pacemaker performance, incidence of atrial arrhythmias, and (as far as possible) confirmation of the stored data themselves by assessment of stored intracardiac electrograms.
Between 1983 and 1991 ten patients with chronic frontal sinus disease underwent frontal osteoplastic flaps with fat obliteration.
In order to judge operative success on a long-term basis all patients were called for postoperative follow-up.
They then completed a questionaire, in which they were asked about postoperative complaints.
Additionally, sinuses were examined by computed tomographic (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MR).
Among the patients evaluated seven had no complaints, and no evidence of disease could be found by medical examination.
CT scans showed complete obliteration of the frontal sinuses in all patients.
In these patients, two-thirds of the fat had been replaced by connective tissue.
MR was used in an attempt to show evidence for suppurative disease in the frontal sinus, but the MR images failed to correlate with symptoms.
Additional results could not be obtained when compared to CT.
Overall operating success could only be determined by clinical assessment and confirmed the value of the frontal osteoplastic flap with fat obliteration.
The objective of our trial was to evaluate the significance and usefulness of sentinel lymphadenectomy (SLNE) for the staging of regional lymph nodes in breast cancer patients.
The study presented illustrates the method and our results.
As has been documentated for melanoma, the first lymph node [sentinel node (SLN)] to receive lymphatic drainage from a primary tumor is the expected first site of lymph-node metastasis.
The database presented includes 12 patients with operable breast cancer and clinically negative lymph nodes.
In 11 cases the described method was applicable.
In only one case was there no correlation between the histology of the SLN and the axillary specimen.
Successful completion of examination of a large number of patients with a long follow-up has the potential of reducing the number of axillary dissections and of significantly reducing morbidity in the majority of breast cancer patients.
Background: Information on the extent and degree of the thermal effect produced is of great importance for control of the laser dosage in laser thermokeratoplasty (LTK) and for postoperative follow-up.
We investigated on acute LTK effects which information images obtained by optical low coherence tomography (OCT) offer compared to those obtained by polarization microscopy.
In cases with protected left main stenosis by previous bypass surgery or as an emergency intervention in patients presenting with acute myocardial infarction and cardiogenic shock, percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty is performed as an alternative treatment strategy to bypass surgery.
A review of 262 left main angioplasties revealed a procedure-related mortality in cases without protection of the left main coronary artery of 9.1% (4/44), in cases with partially protected left main stenosis by collaterals to either left coronary artery of 4.8% (1/21) and 0.5% (1/187) in cases with nonobstructed bypass grafts to either left coronary artery.
Coronary angioplasty of an unprotected left main coronary artery, had an unacceptably high procedure-related mortality rate and should therefore not be performed even in cases of emergency intervention.
The risk stratification of the procedure can be evaluated by the proposed grading of left main artery protection.
Hypocalcemia is a relatively uncommon reversible cause of congestive heart failure.
There are a few reports of hypocalcemic children who developed congestive heart failure associated with hypoparathyroidism.
In all these patients, however, cardiac failure did not occur before the age of nine years.
In addition, other striking noncardial manifestations of hypoparathyroidism, e.g., convulsive seizures, had been present prior to cardiac symptoms.
In this publication, Nager syndrome was analyzed in the literature and six patients from our clinic were evaluated in relation to symptoms, etiology and pathogenesis.
The diseases to be considered when making a differential diagnostis are pointed out.
Clarification of the etiology is still pending.
Molecular genetic research in these patients is possibly the key for new findings.
A case report illustrates the results of interdisciplinary treatment by the surgeon and orthodontist.
Possibilities and problems in relation to therapy are demonstrated.
The results of ankle arthroplasty have generally been disappointing compared to other forms of arthroplasty.
The present survey of results of ankle arthroplasty deals with the anatomical, the kinemasiological the biomechanical and the biological features of the ankle joint.
These features all seem important prerequisites for a successful total ankle prosthesis design.
From the study of the results displayed in the literature and those of my own series it can be stated that a modern ankle arthroplasty should respect the normal anatomy and kinemasiology.
Biomechanically it should work as a normal ankle joint i. e. cylindrical mobility, congruency and a possibility for normal torque within the ankle mortise.
The prosthesis components should only be fixed in solid subchondral bone, and preferably without cement.
Only compressible forces should act at the bone-prosthesis interface.
The axis of the ankle joint as well as of that of the hindfoot should be aligned to normal.
Meticulous surgery and special guide instruments are absolute necessities.
Restoration of muscle power and gait postoperatively are essential for a good and lasting result.
The indication for ankle arthroplasty is mainly cases of osteoarthritis (primary or traumatic) and rheumatoid arthritis.
Contraindications are talus necrosis, Charcot joints, extreme osteoporosis, severe arteriosclerosis, and very aggressive arthritis.
Mental disorders and neurological disorders may also be contraindications.
Furthermore, the patients should agree not to perform sports involving jumping and running or other ankle demanding activities.
The average annual failure rate should not exceed 1 % if these recommendations are followed.
Elbow flexion plays a key role in the overall function of the upper extremity.
In the case of unilateral complete brachial plexus lesion, restoration of elbow flexion will dramatically increase the patient's chances of regaining bimanual prehension.
Furthermore, depending on the type of reconstruction, stability of the glenohumeral joint as well as some supination function of the forearm can be restored to a varying degree at the same time.
Depending on the level of brachial plexus lesion and/or reinnervation, different reconstructive procedures are available.
In order to select the best treatment option for the patient it is necessary to known the extent of the lesion of the brachial plexus and/or ventral upper arm muscles, to time the operation appropriately, to be aware of all treatment possibilities and to recall the special problems of tendon transfer for brachial plexus patients.
Our concept is based on our experience with more than 1100 patients presenting a brachial plexus lesion between 1981 and 1996 and treated in our institution.
There were 528 operative revisions of the brachial plexus.
Some 225 patients underwent secondary muscle/tendon transfers.
In 35 patients elbow flexion was reconstructed by bipolar latissimus dorsi transfer (n = 10), triceps-to-biceps transfer (n = 15), modified flexor/pronator muscle mass proximalization (n = 6) and multiple-stage free functional muscle transfer after intercostal nerve transfer (n = 4).
The official German guidelines for prevention of intravascular-device-associated infections were published by the Bundesgesundheitsamt, now called the Robert-Koch-Institut, 12 years ago.
The recently published official "Guidelines for Prevention of Intravascular-Device Associated Infections" of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) are categorized according to scientific evidence.
The American guidelines are very detailed and differ in some aspects from the offical German guidelines.
The purpose of the present paper is to inform the German-speaking anaesthesiologist about the official CDC guidelines and to provide an update on the prevention of intravascular-device-associated infections.
We assessed the interindividual diagnostic variance of 39 experienced arthroscopists by the Kappa Cohen interobserver variation analysis using videotapes of eight different patients with different diagnoses.
Arthroscopically normal findings showed a relatively acceptable interobserver correlation.
Pathological changes, in contrast, often showed very little correlation, especially in the synovial membrane of the suprapatellar recess, in the cartilage of the femoropatellar groove and the posterior cruciate ligament.
In patellar alignment there was also great interobserver variation.
Clinical relevance: When comparing arthroscopic findings with other imaging techniques the above results should be taken into account.
Furthermore, these results will affect the significance of medical expertise based only on pictures.
In addition, medical cost billing, which is based on arthroscopic findings, has to take into account that a wrong diagnosis is possible and therefore charges will be wrong.
Squamous metaplasia can be demonstrated in about 4% of all invasive carcinomas of the breast.
Primary squamous cell carcinomas of the breast are rare, since they occur in less than 1% of all primary invasive breast carcinomas.
In order to classify a breast tumor as a primary squamous cell carcinoma one must exclude an epidermal origin, especially from the nipple region and the possibility of metastatic infiltration of the breast by a squamous cell carcnoma from a different location.
Causative and formal pathogenesis of primary squamous cell carcinoma of the breast is not clear.
A pluripotent embryonal stem cell origin is discussed, considering the phylogenetic descent of the mammary gland from skin appendages.
Squamous metaplasia is also suggested to be a precursor of squamous cell carcinoma.
Here endocrine stimulation and chronic inflammation may both play an inductive role.
The number of published cases of squamous cell carcinomas developing years and decades after implantation of silicon prostheses has increased in recent years.
These tumors probably develop on top of squamous metaplasia induced by the inflammatory pseudocapsule.
The limited success of thrombolytic therapy and the high percentage of patients who have to be excluded from lysis has resulted in the alternative application of primary PTCA in acute myocardial infarction.
Randomized studies so far available have shown a significant decrease of hospital mortality by primary PTCA as compared to thrombolysis.
Adjuvant stent implantation and a wider administration of glycoprotein IIA/IIIB inhibitors may further reduce mortality.
For logistic and financial reasons however, not all patients with acute myocardial infarction can benefit from this therapeutic approach in spite of the high density of health care in Germany.
Primary PTCA in acute myocardial infarction should be left to experienced centres and investigators.
Of utmost importance is a reduction of the present "onset-to-opening" times by information campaigns, an improved triage, use of transportation times for pre-hospital lysis and improved thrombolytic agents.
Some 245,000 sporting accidents occur yearly in Switzerland.
The social accident costs amount to approximately 1.8 billion francs per year.
Every second sporting accident occurs during a ball game.
For the shown sporting activities, distortion is the most common type of injury among adults and contained fractures are most common in children.
As is to be expected, the number of accidents has grown along with the exploding popularity of snowboarding and in-line skating.
These new sporting activities show no unknown injury patterns which would demand new treatment methods.
Abstract:  The combination of magnetoencephalography (MEG) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) allows the localization and functional characterization of the somatosensory and motor cortex.
However, this method is technically pretentious and time consuming.
Therefore, functional imaging is still not established as routine procedure in neurosurgery.
The aim of the presented study was the development of a protocol, which allows the integration of functional MEG data into presurgical planning and intraoperative navigation, as a routine method.
We report on a 15-year-old girl and her relatives with typical features of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome type VIII.
Main symptoms of this disorder are fragile skin, easy bruisability, joint hypermobility, features suggesting premature aging, and periodontal disease with early loss of teeth.
The inheritance of this type of Ehlers-Danlos syndrome is autosomal dominant.
The biochemical and genetic defects have not yet been elucidated.
The acute liver failure (ALF) is a complex syndrome resulting from loss of synthetic and metabolic functions of the liver.
Despite recent advances in intensive care medicine patients with severe ALF have a very high mortality and the orthotopic liver transplantation still remains the only proven effective treatment of ALF.
Numerous attempts have been made to improve survival by using various extracorporeal support techniques, but none of these therapeutic approaches was able to increase the survival rate.
Liver support systems based on detoxification procedures only could not influence the deleterious course of the disease.
It is certain that an ideal liver support system should be capable to fulfil the liver's essential synthetic and metabolic functions as well as detoxification and excretion.
Over the last years the development of hybrid liver assist devices has aimed at replacing these liver functions and therefore might give an advantage over earlier systems based on detoxification techniques only.
This article gives a short review of the various liver support systems and focuses then on the hybrid liver support systems, their construction and the remaining problems after the first clinical applications.
After a latency period of 20 years, in a 39-year-old Austrian citizen of Chinese origin, a surgically removed rectal carcinoma, as well as the neighboring chronic inflammatory rectal mucosa with various degrees of dysplasia and one positive neighboring lymph node, showed helminthiasis in the histopathological examination, convincing us of a link between carcinoma and chronic helminthiasis.
Whereas the etiological context between chronic infection by Schistosoma haematobium and endemic frequent urinary bladder carcinoma is considered a matter of fact, whether of not the incidence of intestinal carcinoma is increased in connection with chronic intestinal schistosomiasis is controversial.
The etiological and pathogenetic link between helminthiasis and carcinoma should be considered in the same way as for other related inflammatory large-bowel diseases.
In the sequence chronic inflammation - severe dysplasia, the formation of carcinoma could possibly occur.
Besides a survey of trematodes parasitology and pathology, the link between rectal carcinoma and Schistosomiasis japonicum is pointed out by means of appropriate literature investigations.
Rupture of the carotid artery wall is a very rare postoperative complication.
Mainly ruptures of vein patches are described in the literature.
This paper reports on a 51-year-old patient with elective endarterectomy of the left internal carotid artery using V-Y technique.
On day 8 after operation, the carotid bulb ruptured.
The suture line was not involved.
The rupture was due to local wall necrosis, as verified by histologic examination.
In an emergency procedure the necrotized tissue was resected and repaired using a Dacron patch.
Postoperatively the patient showed paresis of the left recurrent nerve but fortunately did not suffer any other neurological deficit.
Myocardial stunning (contractile dysfunction in the presence of normalized perfusion) and myocardial hibernation (contractile dysfunction matching reduced perfusion) have represented separate concepts of viable, but dyssynergic myocardium in the past.
However, in vivo experimental and clinical work suggests that repetitive ischemia due to coronary artery disease may induce a gradual transition between stunned and hibernating myocardium.
Myocardial hibernation itself can result from a spectrum of ischemic conditions ranging from impaired myocardial blood flow reserve to frank hypoperfusion.
With increasing severity and duration of ischemia, degeneration of cardiac myocytes, accumulation of glycogen and cell death ensue.
Additonally, there is an increase of extracellular matrix protein content leading to reparative fibrosis, which in turn limits functional recovery.
In the light of these structural features, the available methods for detection of viable myocardium, in particular dobutamine echocardiography and nuclear imaging techniques, offer complementary rather than contradictory information.
Dobutamine echo has satisfactory sensitivity, excellent specificity, and high diagnostic accuracy for the detection of viable dyssynergic myocardium.
While in the past only its predictive accuracy for segmental recovery has been validated, newer data show an improved survival after revascularization if at least four viable dyssynergic left ventricular segments in a 16 segment model can be identified by dobutamine echocardiography.
The complete (low and high dose) dobutamine protocol can elicit several types of contractile responses (sustained improvement in contraction or monophasic response, biphasic response, new wall motion abnormality) which should be interpreted in view of other clinical data including a previous infarction.
The test protocol can be used safely at the end of the first week after myocardial infarction.
If ischemia or viability is documented, revascularization should be performed promptly.
A similar strategy should be followed in the setting of chronic coronary heart disease with left ventricular dysfunction.
Since the structural changes of hibernating myocardium are progressive, time to revascularization is critical.
On the other hand, responsible therapeutic planning requires proof of ischemia or viability before initiating a potentially hazardous revascularization procedure.
The coarctation of the aorta is a congenital narrowing of the aorta in the transitional area between the distal aortic arch and the proximal descending aorta.
The coarctation causes an arterial hypertension of the upper half and an arterial hypotension of the lower half of the body.
The indication for operative repair is given because of the hypertension with strain and possible insufficiency of the heart.
The resection of the narrowed part of the aorta with end-to-end anastomosis or interposition of a prosthesis brings on the risk of a recoarctation.
After a Vosschulte-aortoplasty a recurrent coarctation is rarely seen.
This method, however, brings on a higher risk of the development of an aneurysm.
In the following it is reported about a patient who underwent an operation due to an aneurysm 22 years after a Vosschulte-aortoplasty.
The aging of the Italian population is an emerging public health priority.
In 2025 Italy is expected to have the highest world median age with nearly half of the population over 50 years old.
To avoid an unbearable burden of disease and disability on future generations, we must identify areas for intensive disease and disability prevention programs.
A 14 year old macedonic girl was admitted with recurrent colicky abdominal pain that had lasted for several weeks.
Laboratory check, plain abdominal film and abdominal sonography did not show abnormalitities immediately.
Increasing enzyme parameters though indicated cholestasis.
Endoscopic retrograde choledocho-pancreaticography (ERCP) was performed after abdominal sonography showed a dilatation of the choledochus.
It revealed a common-channel situation (ductus choledochus and pancreaticus) and choledocholithiasis.
Papillotomy and stone-extraction could not remove abdominal pain.
Laparatomy and choledocho-jejunostomy could finally remove the symptoms.
Successful transplantation of autologous chondrocytes for repair of articular cartilage defects requires an undisturbed matrix-synthesis of the transplanted cells.
This, in turn, is dependent on the composition of the synovial fluid (SF) of the respective joint.
We addressed the question whether analysis of a patient's SF can predict the rate of matrix-synthesis of articular cartilage exposed to this SF in vitro.
SF was obtained from 115 patients with disorders of the knee, including gonarthrosis (n = 44), meniscal tears (n = 10), rheumatoid arthritis (n = 53), and reactive arthritides (n = 8).
In the SF, the following parameters were determined: Interleukin-1, IL-6, IL-8, IL-1-RA, TNF, Insulin-like growth-factor I (IGF-I), IGF-II, IGF-binding protein-2 (IGFBP-2), IGFBP-3 as well as total proteinase activity and total collagenase activity.
To assess the effect of SF on the matrix synthesis of articular chondrocytes, bovine cartilage was incubated in the presence of SF, and the rate of proteoglycan synthesis subsequently determined.
In some cases, a monoclonal antibody directed against IGF-I was added.
SF from patients with OA or trauma, respectively, stimulated PG-synthesis of bovine cartilage more markedly than did SF from patients with rheumatic arthritides.
On the average, 60 percent of the SF-induced increase of cartilage matrix synthesis could be titrated out by an anti-IGF-I-AB.
The best predictor for the SF-effects on PG-synthesis of exposed cartilage was the proportion of free IGF-I (r = 0.573, p < 0.001, Spearman rank correlation) followed by the SF-concentrations of IGF-I (with a positive sign), IGFBP-3, IL-1, and TNF (all with a negative sign).
According to our data, IGF-I is the most important anabolic factor in human SF with respect to cartilage PG-synthesis.
The proportion of free IGF-I seems to be of special importance in this regard.
Low SF-levels of free IGF-I could be identified as a possible risk-factor for a sub-optimal protoeglycan synthesis of chondrocytes exposed to this synovial milieu.
The coincidence between panic disorder and depression is a well known phenomenon.
However, only few studies investigated the coincidence of panic disorder with schizophrenia.
This may in part be explained by the fact that both positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia may mask the clinical symptoms of a panic disorder.
We report on a female patient suffering both from agoraphobia with panic disorder and paranoid schizophrenia according to ICD-10.
The productive psychotic symptoms responded well to treatment with a low dose of zotepine, whereas the panic disorder was effectively treated with a combined therapy with imipramine and cognitive behavioral therapy.
Although it has to be questioned whether the coincidence between panic disorder and schizophrenia reflects two different diagnostic entities, the occurence of symptoms of a panic disorder in schizophrenia deserve further attention because these may be treated efficiently by a specific pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy.
A 54-year-old female patient with a 10-year history of ventriculoperitoneal shunt resulting from communicating hydrocephalus of undetermined aetiology is reported.
Transient gait disturbances and cerebral infarction at the age of 46 did not lead to further insights into the nature of the disease.
After many years with only occasional disturbances, a distinct organic brain syndrome developed.
Thorough examination led to a tentative diagnosis of neurocysticercosis; this was based on the history, liquor diagnosis and cerebral microcalcifications in CT.
Despite the initiation of specific therapy, the patient died of the sequelae of the disease.
At autopsy, characteristic cicatricial residues of mainly basal leptomeningitis were found with collapsed parasitic cysts.
Additional intracerebral mesenchymal-glial reactions were less conspicuous.
Residual ependymitis had caused aqueductal stenosis.
Death was due to cachexia, bronchopneumonia and a lung abscess.
The clinical course and morphology of neurocysticercosis are discussed.
The disease has become rare in our country, but is globally the most important parasitic disease of the central nervous system.
The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the incidence, etiology and prognosis of severe connatal anemia in preterm and term children.
All neonates born in the Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, University of Kiel, were included.
In 18 of 18 367 (0.98 permil) liveborn neonates (birth weight 680-4050 g; 26-41 weeks of gestation), the initial hemoglobin level was below 10 g/dl.
In those children with birth weight below 2500 g the incidence was 6.8 permil.
In 17 of 18 cases the cause of anemia could be clarified.
In five preterm babies (28%) an acute fetofetal transfusion and in three newborns a fetomaternal transfusion was responsible for the onset of anemia.
In two cases there was Rh incompatibility, in two cases placental bleeding, and in another two cases fetal tumour bleeding caused the anemia.
In one fully developed newborn there was severe disseminated intestinal bleeding of unknown cause.
Another child suffered from EBV infection, and one had trisomy 13 with multiple malformations.
Ten children (55%) had to be resuscitated due to hypovolemic shock.
Fifteen children were intubated and ventilated mechanically.
Seven children (39%); (six preterm babies and the newborn with trisomy 13) died between days 1 and 6.
Five of these seven children had to be resuscitated at birth.
Six children (33%) showed evidence of neurologic disease when discharged; five of these were resuscitated previously.
Five children (28%) including three full-term babies were developed normally.
In conclusion, severe anemia with hemoglobin below 10 g/dl is very rare but serious.
It seems necessary to optimize primary resuscitation by immediate transfusion and monitoring of central venous pressure by umbilical vein catheter.
The prognosis can be influenced in a positive way.
Diagnosis of bacterial infection and/or sepsis in critically ill patients is a common problem in intensive care medicine.
White blood count, C-reactive protein (CRP), and the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) are often used in the differential diagnosis of infection versus SIRS (systemic inflammatory response syndrome) due to noninfectious causes.
There is a number of non-infectious stimuli to cause leucocytosis and CRP elevation.
In the last 3 years, Procalcitonin (PCT) was determined to be a marker of severe bacterial infection, especially sepsis.
PCT appears to have several advantages; it is of non-hepatic (yet unknown) origin and useful in patients with hepatic insufficiency.
There is no PCT-increase in acute graft-rejection, viral disease, and autoimmune disorders.
Some studys showed a prognostic value of PCT in sepsis due to peritonitis and pancreatitis.
PCT appears to be a new and helpful tool in the diagnosis and treatment of critically ill patients.
Further studies are needed to finally established PCT in the daily management of critically ill patients.
At this time significantly higher costs are the major detraction to daily or frequent measurements.
In this retrospective study, the meniscal status of 45 patients with conservatively treated complete anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears is reported.
The ACL injury was initially documented by examination under anesthesia and arthroscopy.
Treatment in all cases consisted of a standard protocol of early rehabilitation and bracing.
The mean follow-up was 8 years.
Twenty-nine (65%) patients showed signs of meniscal pathology at an average of 3 years after the ACL injury during the follow-up period.
Rearthroscopy was performed and showed a higher incidence of medial meniscus tears.
The most common tear of the medial meniscus was the bucket-handle type, followed by the flap tear and the single longitudinal split of the posterior horn.
Secondary reconstruction of the ACL was necessary in 24 patients complaining of the meniscus giving way.
The remaining five patients had rearthroscopy 4 years after the ACL injury and a partial meniscectomy and ACL reconstruction was performed.
Sixteen patients (35% of the overall sample) had no instability complaints or meniscal pathology during the follow-up period, but discontinued their sporting activities.
Results indicate the increasing incidence of meniscal tears during ACL insufficiency.
We recommend that patients with ruptures of the ACL should be investigated for meniscal tears and that early ligament reconstruction of the knee and mensical repair or partial meniscectomy should be considered simultaneously.
Four children, 4 to 10 years old, with chronic uveitis were treated with cyclosporin A (CsA; starting dosage 2 mg/kg per day) and prednisolone.
All children had previously received systemic steroids and/or cytotoxic agents, which resulted either in a poor therapeutic effect or in intolerable side effects.
In one child, suffering from uveitis in combination with juvenile rheumatoid arthritis, a complete reduction of intraocular inflammation was achieved.
In a second child treatment resulted in a marked reduction of inflammatory activity with stabilization of visual function, although a temporary increase in the steroid dosage was necessary at one stage.
In the remaining two cases therapy failed to improve the intraocular inflammation.
During the time of treatment, ranging from 11 to 26 months, no serious side effects were observed.
All patients developed moderate hypertrichosis and one child gingival hyperplasia.
In our <\d> experience, cyclosporin A (CsA) combined with low-dose systemic steroids is useful as a therapeutic alternative to steroids alone and to other immunosuppressive agents in severe cases of chronic uveitis in childhood.
Allergic reactions in tattoos are comparatively rare.
In most cases the reactions are caused by different red pigments.
While in the past these reactions have been ascribed to mercury salts (cinnebar) and cadmium sulphide, now synthetic inorganic azo dyes have also been found to be responsible for such reactions.
A 42-year-old man presented with an allergic reaction in the red parts of his tattoos.
Histologically a chronic granulomatous, partly fibrous inflammation with transfollicular elimination of pigment granules was found.
Spontaneous regression in a part of the inflammatory reaction was observed, simultaneously with depigmentation and scarring of the overlying skin.
The pigment used for tattooing was found to be an aromatic azo derivative.
In addition to a positive cutaneous reaction to the dye, the patient also showed a positive patch test to Napthol AS, used for the coupling of different dyes in the textile industry.
Borrelia burgdorferi specific DNA has been detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in different specimens of patients with Lyme disease (LD).
The aim of the present study is to evaluate PCR-diagnostic of urine specimens regarding rheumatologic diagnosis of Lyme disease.
Urine specimens of 77 patients  (LD, n=34; undifferentiated arthritis (UA), n=25; arthralgia/myalgia (AM), n=18) and 15 controls were investigated.
Flagellin gene  (60 specimens) or OspA-plasmid  (32 specimens) were used as targets.
Sensitivity of the flagellin-nested-PCR was 27%, by OspA-nested-PCR only one positive PCR result was found.
Despite of low sensitivity PCR enabled the correct diagnosis of LD in two patients classified as UA.
Therefore, PCR can give valuable hints in single cases if LD is clinically suspected.
Objective: To assess the clinical efficacy of a chemically standardized willow bark extract in the treatment of osteoarthritis.
Methods: Willow bark extract, in a dose corresponding to 240mg salicin/day, was compared to placebo in a 2-week, double-blind, randomized controlled trial.
The primary outcome measure was the pain dimension of the WOMAC Osteoarthritis Index.
Secondary outcome measures included the stiffness and physical function dimensions of the WOMAC, daily visual analogue scales (VAS) on pain and physical function, and final overall assessment by both patients and investigators.
Results: 78 patients (39 willow bark extract, 39 placebo) participated in the trial.
A statistically significant difference between active treatment and placebo group was observed in the WOMAC pain dimension (d=6.5mm, 95%C.I.=0.2-12.7mm, p=0.047); the WOMAC pain score was reduced by 14% from baseline level after two weeks of active treatment, compared to an increase of 2% in the placebo group.
Patient diary VAS confirmed this result, and likewise the final overall assessments showed superiority of willow bark extract over placebo (patients assessment, p=0.0002; investigators assessment, p=0.0073).
Conclusion: Willow bark extract shows a moderate analgesic effect in osteoarthritis.
Background and methods: The aim of this study was to get more information about the prevalence of chronic pain in different practices of home physicians.
900 patients of five different specialists (general medicine, internal medicine, neurology, orthopaedics, surgery) in the german town Bochum were investigated with a questionnaire about chronic pain.
Chronic pain was defined as a continuous or intermittend pain of longer duration than six months.
Confusion between syncope and epileptic seizures is a common problem in clinical practice.
Recently, new insights into the phenomenology of transient cerebral hypoxia have been gained from video analysis of experimentally induced syncope.
Common elements of syncope include multifocal and generalized myoclonus, tonic body extension, automatisms, vocalizations, eye deviations and hallucinations.
Thus, it is not the presence or absence of these features but their specific character that distinguishes syncope from epileptic seizures.
Other clues for differential diagnosis include precipitating factors, premonitory symptoms and postictal events, such as tongue bites and postictal confusion, which has been identified as the single most powerful factor discriminating syncope from epileptic seizures.
In contrast, incontinence and head injury are common in both conditions.
Investigations such as electroencephalogram, tilt testing and postictal prolactin or creatine kinase levels may aid diagnosis but are never diagnostic in isolation.
In rare cases, hypoxic and epileptic mechanisms may interact within one attack.
In the past two decades increasing research efforts have focused on the molecular biology of the cell.
In the beginning, these research activities were purely academic without any direct clinical relation.
A series of important discoveries, initiated particularly by the unravelling of the genetic code and the discovery of the molecular basis of gene expression and genetics, the subsequent identification of oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes and finally the description of major mechanisms which induce genetic instability in cells, now indicate the way to many new diagnostic and therapeutic strategies.
In surgical oncology, these attempts are yielding the first clinical consequences.
Basic aspects of molecular cell biology as far as they are relevant for surgical oncologists are discussed.
The compartment syndrome (cs) is characterized by an increased tissue pressure in a limited space.
Pathophysiologically, it is a multifactorial disease that is potentially induced by an initial trauma and develops according to the existence of cofactors.
Cofactors are, for instance, the circulation of the patient and the initial treatment of the impending cs.
In particular, the microcirculation is altered with endothelial destruction, development of a capillary leak, protein loss from intravasal space and the development of an interstitial and intracellular third space.
An impaired drainage of the lymphatic and venous system causes a venous infarction.
An arterial infarction results if the tissue pressure exceeds the arteriolar pressure.
An accompanying ischemia reperfusion mechanism increases the trauma load.
In disadvantageous cases, the patients are in danger of developing a multi-organ deficiency syndrome (MODS) by an uncontrolled inflammatory reaction, by intravasal volume loss and by a myonephropathic systemic reaction.
Clinically, the patients suffer a disproportionate amount of pain, followed by neurological signs.
Especially in noncompliant patients, tissue pressure measurement is useful.
Resuscitation of the circulation as well as splitting of casts is important.
In case of a manifest cs, dermatofasciotomy has to be performed as an emergency operation.
Even if cs is diagnosed early and fasciotomy is carried out early, the development of sequellae cannot be avoided in every single case.
The object of this study was to evaluate retrospectively the value of open and arthroscopic procedures at mid-term and long-term follow-up.
During the period from January 1980 to June 1997 we performed 247 open (technique: 134 according to Eden-Hybbinette-Lange, 46 according to Weber, 26 according to Putti-Platt, 41 according to Bankart) and 76 arthroscopic (transglenoidal Morgan technique) shoulder stabilization procedures.
The mean follow-up for techniques was: Eden-Hybbinette-Lange 11.1 years (2.9-16.7 years), Weber 5.2 years (2.1-13.0 years), Putti-Platt 7.2 years (2.2-10.6 years), Bankart 1.6 years (0.5-3.2 years), and Morgan 3.5 years (2.8-5.1 years).
We observed that the classic open Bankart procedure has superior results according to the criteria redislocation, range of motion, sports activity, and arthrosis in comparison with the other open procedures.
The results shows that nonanatomical, reconstructive, open procedures are not up to date.
The open Bankart procedure reconstructs the pathology of the anterior glenoid rim only.
The classic open Bankart procedure seems to be the "gold standard" in open shoulder surgery today.
The high redislocation rate of the arthroscopic procedure warrants a more stringent patient selection in the future.
Background: Our study compared the haemodynamic changes after spinal anaesthesia with 2% lignocaine and 0,5% plain bupivacaine.
Hyperkalemia is a frequent disturbance.
When hyperkalemia is associated with a rapid rise of the serum potassium concentration, the risk of cardiac impairment is greatest.
Usually the cooperative action of several causative factors is required to bring about a hyperkalemia.
Increasing age, diabetes mellitus, disorders of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone-system, high-dose antibiotics, and immunsuppressive treatments may result in hyperkalemia.
The most important pathogenetic mechanisms are (1) renal insufficiency, (2) hyporeninemic hypoaldeosteronism, (3) tubular disorders, and (4) cellular disorders.
Background: CMV retinitis is the most common opportunistic ocular infection and the main cause of blindness in AIDS patients with a T-helper cell count <= 50/µl.
Cidofovir is a nucleotide analogue with a long half-life time after phosphorylation intracellularly.
It is effective against CMV and can be given intravenously and intravitreally.
The aim was to offer an alternative therapy for CMV retinitis to patients who could not receive standard treatment because of contraindications or refused it.
The efficacy and tolerance of intravitreal injections of cidofovir should be evaluated.
A case of multiple eccrine spiradenomata is reported.
One of the tumours was histopathologically associated with dermal cylindroma, and immunohistochemical studies showed that the cylindroma cells differentiate towards the secreting portion of the eccrine sweat gland.
The relationship among multiple eccrine spiradenomata, dermal cylindroma and multiple trichoepitheliomata is discussed.
In view of the risks of a varicella infection during pregnancy and the more and more observed severe course of infection, varicella infection has to be considered as a serious disease.
The initial antibiotic treatment of bacterial meningoencephalitis has major implications for the course of the disease.
The current spectrum of infectious agents must be considered.
Antibiotics have to reach sufficient concentrations in the blood and cerebrospinal fluid for a bactericidal action to occur at the site of infection.
Frequent problems arising in this condition are: (1) the non-observation of listerial infections, (2) the use of antibiotics not sufficiently active against gram-positive bacteria in pneumococal meningitis, (3) the development of meningitis following the use of ciprofloxacin in respiratory tract infections, (4) the hasty change in antibiotic regimens in focal parenchymal infections during delayed response to therapy, (5) the use of bacteriostatic antibiotics, and (6) the delay in administering sufficient antibiotic therapy during fulminate meningococcal meningitis.
Problems arising from these conditions are illustrated by case reports.
Therapy of rheumatoid arthritis with a combination of several disease-modifying drugs aims towards better control of the disease than achievable by monotherapy.
Based on a broad variety of clinical studies, revealing more or less positive results, several combinations have been suggested:...
The management of 178 patients with liver trauma (132 male, 46 female; mean age 34 years (range 3-88) presenting from January 1979 to August 1996 is reviewed.
There were 165 cases of blunt trauma and 13 cases of penetrating injury.
110 cases were classified as simple injuries (grade I or II) and 68 cases as complex injuries (grade III to V).
The overall mortality was 32 % (57 patients).
The mortality for true hepatic injury was 15.7 %.
None of the patients with penetrating injuries died.
Mortality was inflenced by the type of liver injury and the number of associated injuries.
The postoperative complication rate was 55 %.
The most-frequent postoperative complications related to the hepatic injury were intrahepatic or subcapsular hematoma (12.9 %) and postoperative bleeding (9.6 %).
Intraabdominal abscess formation was seen in 2.8 %.
Operative therapy for liver injuries depends on the grade of the injury.
The majority of liver injuries can be managed by simple techniques, including electrocautery and application of hemostatic agents.
In complex injuries hepatotomy, direct vessel ligation, and debridement of necrotic tissue is the method of choice (Pachter's procedure).
In non-controlled bleeding, perihepatic picking is a standard method.
Aim: The aim of the present study was to investigate knowledge, practices, and opinions on tobacco and oral health among dentists of the Berlin Dental Association using a questionnaire.
Materials and methods: Questions focussed on smoking habits, knowledge about oral malignancies and premalignancies and practical approaches to screening for oral mucosal diseases and other associations of tobacco with oral changes.
The questions related to risk factors and behavioural counselling for patients and associated constraints.
Results: Of a total of 4000 questionnaires sent, 483 were received for evaluation (12.1%).
Of respondents 9.5% were regular smokers.
The median number of oral malignancies observed was 3.
Knowledge about some associations of oral changes such as wound healing was adequate.
A total of 93.1% of respondents would refer patients with oral lesions.
Only 35% take a regular history of both tobacco and alcohol consumption and 26.6% explain the side effects of tobacco.
Some 73.4% believed that the dentist could play a role in anti-tobacco counselling.
Limiting factors were lack of training and of competence in anti-tobacco counselling.
Conclusions: This study shows that there still is a considerable need for improvement of knowledge and for provision with effective anti-tobacco teaching material.
Since most of the respondents thought that the dentist should play a role in anti-tobacco counselling, adequate programmes in Germany should be inititated and followed up.
Background: Last year's pilot study, which examined for the first time a representative group of patients with Chagas disease, showed that in this parasitosis changes in the ocular fundus can be expected in the form of defects of the retinal pigment epithelium.
Examination of more patients in this study should give further information about the character and extent of the alterations found.
The posterior luxation of the shoulder joint is a rarely reported and often not recognized lesion in the clinical workday.
The authors present the first case of a posterior luxation of the shoulder joint in combination with an contralateral anterior shoulder joint fracture dislocation.
In that case the authors stress the importance of an exact clinical and radiology diagnostic and the right way to reduce a posterior luxation of the shoulder joint.
Finally they draw the readers attention to operative steps to prevent a reluxation of the shoulder joint.
Magnetic resonance tomography (MRT) has become the most important method in the workup of infantile cerebral complications after primary sonography.
Cerebral MR examination and image interpretation during the infantile period require extensive knowledge of morphological manifestations, their pathophysiological background, and frequency.
The choice of imaging parameters and image interpretation is demonstrated in infarctions and hemorrhages of the mature and immature brain.
A review of the main differential diagnoses is also given.
The relevance of MR spectroscopy and fetal MRI is discussed.
Currently laparoscopic surgery is limited by several factors.
One of them is the precise handling of optics.
Up to now, in our hospital 52 laparoscopic operations have been done with a voice - controlled robot arm to handle the optics in gallbladder, stomach, large bowel and hernia operations.
The visual field is determined by the surgeon.
In all cases handling of the robot arm was precise and the voice response exact and without technical problems.
Twenty-nine operations were done by one operator as "solo surgeries".
In 20 further cases there was one assistant.
A robot arm can be used successfully without problems by any laparoscopic surgeon in any operating theater.
Urine specimens were collected from 49 persons up to 10 days after abstaining from cannabis use.
Urine samples (n = 135) were investigated for free and conjugated 9-carboxy-11-nor tetrahydrocannabinol (THCCOOH) by LC/MS/MS and for free and glucuronidated tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and 11-hydroxy-THC (11-OH-THC) by GC/MS prior to and after enzyme hydrolysis.
Concentrations for free and conjugated THCCOOH were measured with reference to 100 mg creatinine/dL urine.
Cannabis use was classified as light, moderate and heavy according to the current literature.
In all groups chosen free and bound THCCOOH was present in urine samples on the day of the last use and on the next day.
Urine samples from occasional and frequent users generally differed in the amount of THCCOOH and THCCOOH glucuronide.
Within 4-6 days the concentrations of free and glucuronidated THCCOOH in urine samples of heavy users decreased to those ranges present in urine samples of moderate and light users.
In frequent users, THC glucuronide and 11-OH-THC glucuronide could be found up to 1 and 3 days after abstinence, respectively.
In light users, neither THC glucuronide nor 11-OH-THC glucuronide was detectable.
The determination of conjugated THC and 11-OH-THC in addition to free and bound THCCOOH is suggested as an aid in assessing the frequency of cannabis use, but is limited to samples obtained within a few days after the last consumption.
The participation of social work in inpatient psychiatric care is generally considered necessary, but there is a lack of empirical studies in this field.
The analyses presented of a systematic documentation of social work interventions in 2038 cases during an 11-year period demonstrate that social workers are mostly involved in the treatment of chronic and previously treated patients.
Interventions in younger patients, most of whom are suffering from psychoses, aim at rehabilitation through activity; in elderly patients with organic or depressive disorders, the major concern is to improve posthospital care; patients with neurotic or personality disorders comprise another group with a chronic course and a relatively poor outcome.
As far as their goals are comparable, social workers and doctors agree on their objectives.
Social workers usually see their own interventions as successful, but patient groups who benefit greatly can be differentiated from groups with poor outcome.
Stiff-man syndrome is a rare disorder of the central nervous system characterized by muscular rigidity and superimposed spasms.
The etiology is still unknown and an autoimmune cause is discussed.
Many differential diagnoses of muscular rigidity and of induration of the skin have to be considered.
A 22 year old patient was admitted under suspicion of a stiff-man syndrome.
He has had developed a painful rigidity of the trunk, starting in the neck.
Massive stiffness of the trunk with pale appearance of the skin and a beginning disorder of swallowing and respiration were observed.
Clinical investigation, EMG, cerebrospinal fluid and laboratory findings were all normal, thus excluding a stiff-man syndrome and other neuromuscular diseases.
Skin biopsy showed typical changes of Buschke's scleredema adultorum, a rare connective tissue disorder of unknown etiology.
Therapy with corticosteroide and ciclosporin led to a mild improvement of symptoms.
Although rare, Buschke's scleredema adultorum should be regarded as a differential diagnosis of the stiff man syndrome.
Urogenital infections are established as hazards to male fertility.
Various pathophysiological hypotheses have evolved from experimental and clinical studies, facilitating explanation of the effects of bacteria and immunological events on reproductive tissues.
Numerous current studies have identified and evaluated infectious mediators accounting for specific molecular events in urogenital infections.
Valuable studies can be expected to appear in the future due to improvements in diagnostic procedures and new classifications of urogenital infections.
X-ray or CT images allow only a limited three-dimensional orientation in presurgical planning.
Especially for the planning of internal hemipelvectomies with custom-made endoprosthesis and for periacetabular osteotomies a high-grade orientation is necessary.
This orientation is improved by a 3D CT-controlled manufactured 1:1 model of the pelvis.
This enables an exact classification of defect and deformity, planning of resection planes, design of the suitable custom-made implant and simulation of the operation technique as preoperative quality control.
An Ivalon-plug (PDA-plug) has been developed for transvenous closure of patent ductus arteriosus.
It can be introduced into the ductus through standard venous sheaths with a diameter von 8-16 French.
The plug is fixed in its target position by means of four distal (aortal) and two proximal (pulmonary) nitinol struts.
In case of malpositioning the system can be pulled back into and retrieved through the sheath.
In animal experiments endothelialization of the implanted material was demonstrated.
PDA-closure was attempted in 58 patients; the procedure was successful in 57 cases; a residual ductal flow was present in eight patients.
During a follow-up of up to 24 months there were no complications.
Using 8 different monoclonal antibodies, immunohistology was performed on 36 follicular adenomas and on 28 follicular, 34 papillary, 27 medullary and 29 anaplastic carcinomas of the thyroid.
The panel of antibodies was directed against broad-spectrum cytokeratins (pan-CK, antibody lu-5), against basic and acid high-molecular-weight CK of types  1, 5, 10 and 14, against basic ( 5 and 6) and acid high-molecular-weight CK ( 13) and against basic ( 7 and  8) and acid low-molecular-weight CK ( 19 and  20).
With the exception of a large number of anaplastic carcinomas, nearly all other tumours exhibited strong immunoreactivity with antibodies against pan-CK, CK 8 and CK 19.
CK 20 expression was exclusively shown for 2 medullary carcinomas.
Reactivity for high-molecular-weight CK could only, each time focally, be demonstrated for 14 papillary and 2 follicular carcinomas and for 2 anaplastic carcinomas with partial squamous differentiation.
Thirteen anaplastic carcinomas were not decorated by any of the CK antibodies applied.
CK 7 staining exceeding the staining of individual cells was observed in 26 papillary cancers.
In contrast, such a finding could only be obtained with each one follicular adenoma, medullary carcinoma and anaplastic carcinoma and with 5 follicular carcinomas.
These results confirm earlier studies in that CK 20 expression among thyroid tumours is restricted to the neuroendocrine medullary carcinomas and that in a larger percentage of anaplastic thyroid carcinomas an epithelial phenotype can not be demonstrated even upon using broad-spectrum CK antibodies.
New is the finding that there exist considerable differences between papillary carcinomas and all other non-papillary thyroid tumours regarding CK 7 expression.
This result might be of differential diagnostic value for the distinction of follicular and papillary thyroid neoplasias which sometimes have an overlapping histological pattern.
Purpose: To compare reading speed and reading comfort between closed-circuit television systems (CCTVs) with different image refresh rates.
This surveillance study presents a literature review concerning the very inhomogeneous care emphasis of the acute psychosocial crisis both with respect to crisis insight and therapy methods and to professional responsibility.
In detail general care models of psychotherapeutic crisis intervention are described, as well as disorder- and event-specific concepts and papers on crisis intervention with children, teen-agers, and adolescents of the last 10 years.
In addition, the contributions of the empirical psychotherapy research and their results are presented as far as they are relevant to crisis intervention.
In recent years many different systems for transcatheter closure of an atrial septal defect (ASD) have been developed and tested.
However, all systems presently available have some special disadvantages.
The recently introduced Amplatzer Septal Occluder (ASO), though, appears promising.
It is a self-expanding and self-centering double disc made from a Nitinol mesh, which is tightly woven to give mechanical strength.
Both discs are separated by a connecting cylindrical portion.
Its diameter may be chosen, so that it corresponds to that of the ASD.
In the light of recent research findings the inappropriateness of many commonly accepted concepts in psychosomatic medicine is discussed.
They do not stand up to empirical scrutiny.
This applies both to sepcifity models and to duality of body and mind or of illness and health.
The monocausal-psychogenetic view was replaced through a complex interplay of hierarchie somato-psychic circles which are to be integrated into a biosemiotic model.
In terms of the self-object-body system a greater significance is attached to affects in the communication and acting receives an important interactive function.
The effects of the altered theroretical positions on new therapy approaches are discussed.
Perioperative, mostly silent ischaemia in patients with coronary heart disease is difficult to detect by clinical examinations.
Herpes simplex viruses are known to be among the most common disease-causing microorganisms.
Their prevalence can exceed 90% depending on the socioeconomic status of the population.
Since the number of immunocompromised patients has increased because of the increased incidence in the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and an increase in organ transplantation, herpes virus infection may have a greater clinical significance.
While treatment of otherwise healthy individuals will not usually cause any clinical problems herpes infection in an immunocompromised patient can have severe consequences.
Additionally, development of viral resistance can be observed that may require alternative drugs in treatment.
We present a case history of a man with a B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia that was associated with a very unusual herpes simplex virus infection in the nasal vestibule.
Possible causes for the development of resistance in herpes infections and the use of famciclovir and forscarnet as two therapeutic alternatives to aciclovir are discussed.
Tumor invasion of the portal vein by ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head is classically known as a criterion for inoperability.
Despite improvement in operation techniques for portal vein resection during Whipple's procedure and acceptable mortality and morbidity, in the case of uncertain tumor infiltration vascular resection cannot be recommended in general.
The problem is the preoperative detection of tumor infiltration of the portal vein.
Often the surgeon is confronted with unsuspected macroscopic portal vein infiltration or tumor adhesion during the operation.
Between 1986 and 1995 105 patients underwent Whipple's procedure for ductal adenocarcinoma of the pancreatic head in our department.
In eight of these cases partial portal vein resection was performed because of macroscopic tumor infiltration or tumor adhesion.
In all eight cases the preoperative diagnostic procedures with CT and portography did not show any suspicion of tumor infiltration.
In four of the eight cases histological tumor infiltration of all vascular layers was found.
In the others we found no or only adventitial tumor invasion.
The patients without tumor infiltration of the portal vein showed a survival time after surgery of 27.78 months in contrast to 6.67 months in the group with histologically proven tumor infiltration.
Endovascular, intraportal ultrasound (IPEUS), a new diagnostic procedure, can give helpful information regarding portal vein involvement.
Although the IPEUS is not a standard diagnostic procedure it was shown to detect portal vein infiltration with high sensitivity and specificity.
Our results indicate that in such cases where portal vein infiltration has been excluded by IPEUS, patients with macroscopic tumor adhesion do benefit from partial portal vein resection.
Progression in medical research and economic needs require new planning and organization of treatment strategies.
This does also apply for stroke treatment: New pathophysiological knowledge, positive results of thrombolytic therapy and the demostrated importance of early treatment at Stroke Units justify that stroke must be regarded as an emergency.
Timing is of utmost importance.
Time-based management serves as a planning model for a new stroke treatment strategy.
The treatment process is divided into three phases: alarming, pre-hospital and in-hospital phase.
The effectiveness of each of these phases is influenced by several variables (personnel, technical equipment, course of the disease, etc.).
Knowledge of each separate phase helps to discover weaknesses, which allows an aimed improvement, e.g.
public education, training of paramedics and medical personnel.
Modern communication systems allow new information transfer, which can help to avoid unnecessary transport of patients.
Prosthetic valve endocarditis (PVE) is a severe complication after heart valve replacement.
Incidence ranges in literature between 0.1% and 2.3% (mean 0.4%) per patient year (pty).
PVE is classified as "early" or "late" (occurence within or after 60 days following heart valve replacement).
In this review we present the clinical outcome of PVE as well as the most common diagnostic criteria (Duke criteria), the potential etiologies and the most frequent bacteria.
The spectrum of therapeutical alternatives is discussed and a special attention is directed to the development of prevention standards.
Recently intra-atrial defibrillation has become an interesting alternative to external defibrillation and drug therapy for the treatment of atrial fibrillation.
Low-energy intra-atrial defibrillation can be used to restore sinus rhtyhm f.ex.
after a failed external cardioversion or during an electrophysiologic study when the administration of antiarrhythmic drugs should be avoided.
Additionally this new technique has led to the development of implantable atrial defibrillators for the treatment of selected patients suffering from chronic atrial fibrillation.
Intra-atrial defibrillation seems to be a highly effective and safe method, but little experience exists concerning the outcome so far.
Especially the potential risk of inducing ventricular proarrhythmia is subject of current controversy.
Modern imaging techniques are a substantial part of treatment planning for minimally invasive radiotherapeutic procedures.
The aim is three-dimensional assessment of the target volume and adjacent critical structures.
In this paper, we report on our clinical experience with a precise system for stereotactic image correlation.
Hereby, the advantages of each imaging modality can be combined.
Precise immobilization of the patient is a prerequisite.
The immobilization method has an accuracy of less than 1 mm.
This method was evaluated in a clinical study in which a tumor control rate of 93 % was achieved in patients with brain metastases after stereotactic single high dose radiotherapy.
This indicated the excellent reliability of this treatment planning method.
The integration of functional image information, such as blood flow or activation of cerebral cortical areas, will be evaluated in the future.
Olfactory dysfunction seems to be one of the most frequent symptoms in idiopathic parkinsonian syndrome (IPS).
In contrast to the increasing number of studies providing evidence of the usefulness of olfactory tests in the diagnosis of IPS, clinical assessment of olfactory function is rarely performed.
This may be due to the lack of an easy-to-use,  inexpensive, standardized, and reliable test.
In this study, we administered the newly developed "sniffin' sticks" test to a group of 40 nondemented IPS patients and compared the results with 40 healthy controls matched for age, gender, and smoking habits.
In all three subtests including odor identification, odor detection threshold, and odor discrimination, the control group scored significantly better than the IPS group, yielding a specificity and sensitivity of 90% each.
Our results indicate that olfactory disturbances in IPS can be found at early stages of the disease, appear bilaterally, and do not correlate with the dominant side of parkinsonism.
Therefore, we emphasize that olfactory testing may be a useful tool in the diagnosis of IPS.
Purpose: The goal of this exemplary study was to integrate morphological and functional MRI to establish computer-based, preoperative therapy planning for tumors, instancing cervical carcinoma.
Drug-induced toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) is a rare but frequently lethal disease of the skin and mucosa of unknown etiology.
Toxic metabolic and immunologic products in the serum have been discussed as possible causes.
For this reason we have performed plasmapheresis on these patients for many years.
Results regarding survival and healing of the lesions are quite favorable, as exemplified with two patients described here who benefited from the procedure despite their old age.
In order to gain insight into possible disease mechanisms that would explain the beneficial effect of plasmapheresis, we did immunohistochemical studies on these patients before and in one case after the procedure.
In dermis and epidermis, there was a striking increase of macrophages and a relative increase of CD8-positive lymphocytes which might act as cytotoxic effector cells; these findings can be interpreted as the result of an immunological reaction.
An increased staining of lesional epidermis with TNF, as previously noted by other autors, should be interpreted with caution since necrotic cells are involved.
On the basis of the clinical results, the pathogenetic considerations, and in view of the lack of specific treatment modalities, clinical studies concerning plasmapheresis for the treatment of toxic epidermal necrolysis are recommended, particularly since this procedure is widely available and generally well tolerated.
The majority of inflammatory frontal sinus diseases requiring operative intervention can now be managed successfully by endonasal surgery.
In problematic cases, however, optimal exposure of the entire frontal sinus and possibly complete mucous membrane removal combined with sinus obliteration must be achieved.
In these cases, external frontal sinus surgery is indicated.
Impaction of an intramedullary nail during extraction is an unpredictable and delicate situation.
Its problematic nature is unfolded on a report of two cases, one with a Küntscher nail and one with a modern solid titanium nail.
This event is caused by ingrowth of new bone formation into the slot or the dorsal flute respectively.
The new bone formation is a mechanical barrier which effectively forces the distal part of the nail to jam against the cortex.
Both, the slot of the unlocked reamed clover leaf nail and the wider dorsal flute of the solid titanium nail, realize certain therapeutic concepts.
Their factual benefit within the concept of interlocking nailing is doubtful.
Primary intracranial germ cell tumors are rare neurological diseases.
Secreting germ cell tumors that predominantly appear in the pineal region are characterized by elevated levels of -HCG and AFP in CSF.
Adequate diagnostic and therapeutic regimens of these tumors are still under debate.
We present the case of a patient suffering from spinal metastasis of a secreting germ cell tumor with raised levels of -HCG in CSF.
Six years before, a pineocytoma of intermediate differentiation had been diagnosed by stereotaxic biopsy.
This demonstrates the importance of an early detection of a germ cell neoplasm in case of midline-sized brain-tumors by evaluation of -HCG and AFP in CSF and serum.
Today, different therapeutic strategies depending on the histological diagnosis are available and justify a high priority of a surgical tumor biopsy.
However, the value of stereotaxic procedures remains controversial.
Recently published data gave evidence of a definite improved prognosis of secreting CNS germ cell tumors following combined treatment with high-dose polychemotherapy, surgical resection and radiation of the tumor area.
-HCG and AFP may serve as useful markers to enable follow-up of the disease.
In order to get a better data management of complications in orthopedic surgery and in order to get comparable statistics a standardisation of nomenclature and classification of complications is demanded since 1.1.1997.
The Orthopedic University Clinic of Heidelberg started with a register of all early complications of all inpatients.
According to a standardized nomenclature all occured complications the doctors put in the data of complications in a database.
These data were controlled, complemented and classified by members of the quality menagement group.
This guideline consists of five parts: catalogue of diagnoses, general and special definitions, classification and an allocation table of diagnoses to grades of severity.
The internet plays an important role in a growing number of medical applications.
Finding relevant information is not always easy as the amount of available information on the Web is rising quickly.
Even the best Search Engines can only collect links to a fraction of all existing Web pages.
In addition, many of these indexed documents have been changed or deleted.
The vast majority of information on the Web is not searchable with conventional methods.
New search strategies, technologies and standards are combined in Intelligent Search Agents (ISA) and Robots, which can retrieve desired information in a specific approach.
With the availability of modern imaging modalities such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CT), and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE), diagnostic options in the evaluation of Marfan patients have been improved profoundly.
The most recent diagnostic advances comprise noninvasive tissue characterization of the aortic wall, immunofluorescence studies or pulse chase analyses of skin and cultured dermal fibroblasts, and molecular analysis at the cDNA/DNA level of the fibrillin-1 gene.
New diagnostic insights have eventually led to revised nosologic criteria for the diagnosis of Marfan syndrome.
The diagnostic reliability as well as the advantage and limitation of these recent diagnostic strategies are discussed: moreover diagnostic concepts for patients with neonatal as well as classic Marfan syndrome are presented and discussed in the context of the clinical management during adolescence, gravidity as well as in the pre- and postoperative patient.
Primary defects of skeletal growth and development can be subdivided into hypoplasias, dysostoses and dysplasias.
Hypoplastic bones are small but otherwise normal.
Generalized skeletal hypoplasias comprise various forms of primordial dwarfism and syndromal disorders including trisomy 21 and Ullrich-Turner syndrome.
Dysostoses are defects of bones as organs resulting from errors of morphogenesis.
Many of them are caused by mutations of single genes in the cascade of morphogenetic gene sequences.
Dysplasias are defects of bone as tissue.
Some of them (e. g. achondroplasia, Jansen type of metaphyseal chondrodysplasia) are caused by defects of signal genes influencing cell division or differentiation.
Others result from gene mutations affecting the cellular production of matrix components.
Examples are collagenopathies such as osteogenesis imperfecta and some spondyloepiphyseal dysplasias.
Finally, disorders such as pycnodysostosis, result from defects of chondro-osseous homeostasis.
The study of skeletal defects helps to unravel the complexity of normal skeletal development.
Human parvovirus B19 causes erythema infectiosum (fifth disease) and aplastic crisis.
In pregnancy, B19 may be transmitted on to the fetus resulting in hydrops fetalis.
B19 is sometimes associated with thrombocytopenia and vasculitis.
In immunocompromised patients, B19 may persist causing chronic infection.
Several methods for detecting B19 virus or specific antibodies are now available.
B19 infection does not usually require therapy.
Efficacy of immunoglobulins in chronic B19 infection has been demonstrated.
In absence of significant symptoms and signs, the diagnosis of pulmonary embolism (PE) remains difficult.
Sensitivity and specifity of laboratory tests, chest X-ray, and ECG on their own is low.
Echocardiography is particularly useful in critically ill patients suspected of having pulmonary emboli and can help identify right ventricular pressure overload.
Venous ultrasonography is useful in patients with suspected PE, but normal results do not rule out PE.
Helical CT with contrast medium can identify pulmonary emboli.
However, if the CT findings are normal in the presence of a high index of clinical suspicion, only larger pulmonary embolism are ruled out, and angiography with the focus on distal pulmonary vasculature should be performed.
The diagnosis of pulmonary embolism should be made by combining clinical assessment, several diagnostic techniques, and finally pulmonary angiography in doubtful cases.
Heparin remains the standard therapy for patients with stable hemodynamics.
Thrombolytic therapy is recommended in hemodynamically compromised patients.
In short-term dose regimes, the thrombolytic agents urokinase, streptokinase, and rt-PA seem to be equally efficient.
So far, however, no study has proven that thrombolytic therapy significantly reduces mortality in pulmonary embolism.
Background: Data on mesopic vision after LASIK are not available to date.
We therefore evaluated mesopic vision in myopic eyes before and after LASIK.
Renal tubular dysgenesis is a rarely recognized condition characterized by oligohydramnios, Potter's sequence and congenital anuria leading to stillbirth or neonatal death from respiratory failure.
It is thought to be inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
Definitive diagnosis is based on renal histology, revealing the lack of proximal tubule differentiation.
Two additional cases of affected sibs in a family with parental consanguinity are reported.
Lectin and immunohistochemical studies confirmed structural and functional immaturity of the proximal tubule.
Further findings include bilateral renal vein thrombosis.
The clinical and morphological parameters defining this disorder and the possible mechanisms of pathogenesis are discussed.
Articular cartilage has only a small capacity for regneration.
This makes the repair of articular surfaces difficult.
In 1959 Pridie described his method of resurfacing osteoarthritic knee joints.
This operation is still in widespread use today.
Pridie introduced the principle of drilling exposed subchondral bone with the objective of encouraging a fibro-cartilaginous repair.
The newly formed fibrocartilaginous layer that develops over the lesion in osteoarthritis may be enough to decrease patients symptoms.
Bone drilling into the subchondral layer is also effective in promoting healing of osteochondrosis dissecans.
The choice of the treatment should be based on factors such as age of the patient, serverity of symptoms, activity level and functional demands on the joint, site and stage of the lesion.
The drilling operation remains useful in osteoathritis and osteochondrosis dissecans.
Recent immunobiological findings together with advances in biotechnology, ameliorations in clinical trial design, and MRI developments have led to a variety of therapeutical approaches in multiple sclerosis (MS).
However, in contrast to successfully introduced new treatments, a number of therapeutical failures exist as well: despite impressive data from animal models, convincing concepts, and promising phase I/II studies, some investigated drugs and strategies showed no positive effects in clinical trials, or trials had to be terminated because of unexpected side effects.
This article provides an overview of clinical studies that have failed or been abandoned for other reasons.
Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) -antagonists which have led to negative effects in two studies (Lenercept, Infliximab) are discussed in detail.
These results raise critical questions concerning the hypothetical pathogenesis of MS lesions and the value of MRI in the assessment of clinically relevant therapeutic drug effects.
In addition to a description of the immunobiological background, studies on the immunosuppressive agents linomide, deoxyspergualin, sulfasalazine and cladribine, trials for the cytokines interleukin-10 and TGF-2, the studies on remyelination by intravenous immunoglobulins (IVIg), oral tolerance, and extracorporeal photopheresis are discussed.
Isolated pancreatic metastases from renal-cell carcinomas (RCC) are extremely rare.
Only 96 cases of clinically diagnosed renal-cell carcinoma metastatic to the pancreas have been reported in the world literature, and 70 of the patients (including ours) underwent a definitive surgical resection.
In many cases the time between the nephrectomy and diagnosis of metachronous metastases is reported to exceed 10 years.
Therefore, the initial diagnosis may be overlooked when there is a prolonged disease-free interval.
When it does occur simultaneously or metachronously, aggressive surgical resection, when possible, seems to be the most effective treatment for this metastatic lesion.
Surgical resection can provide long-term survival in selected cases.
We present the case of a 69-year-old woman in whom two pancreatic metastases were treated by a left-sided subtotal pancreatectomy with splenectomy, 12 years after radical nephrectomy for a RCC.
The patient simultaneously presented with both a mass in the body of the pancreas and a right-sided colon cancer.
Thus, the diagnosis of pancreatic metastasis of colon cancer was suspected initially.
Both tumors were radically resected, and histological examination revealed two pancreatic metastases from the previous RCC.
In the world literature this report represents the eighth case of multiple pancreatic metastases due to RCC.
It illustrates a rare indication of pancreatic resection because of pancreatic metastasis.
The need for prolonged follow-up of patients is emphasized.
The few reports on surgically treated pancreatic metastases from RCC are reviewed after the presentation of this case.
Delusion is understood to mean intersubjectively disconcerting convictions with a tendency toward subjective certainty that lose their disconcerting character when made the object of psychiatric analysis in the knowledge of their independence from mental disorder.
The perceptions from which delusions arise are dynamically charged according to their role in the structural context.
The realisation pressure that burdens the perceptions and is intensified in psychotic constitutions is a precondition for the delusion.
The failure of derealisation brought about by the psychotic disorganisation of the structure is also a requirement.
Based on a case study, considerations arising out of the initial stages of schizophrenic delusion are extended to other forms of delusion and to the conditions for chronification.
High-dose chemotherapy (HDCT) is a promising treatment for patients with germ cell tumours and a poor prognosis.
The selection of patients who may profit from this intervention is challenging for the urologist, as the indication has to be carefully established.
Exclusion criteria primarily concern impaired organ functions.
Prior to HDCT haematopoietic stem cells are obtained after the administration of conventional-dose chemotherapy plus G- or GM-CSF stimulation.
HDCT consists of a combination of carboplatin, etoposide and ifosfamide or cyclophosphamide.
After HDCT, haematologic monitoring and maximal supportive care are essential.
It is therefore recommended that HDCT only be administered at specialized centres.
Pyoderma gangrenosum develops in most patients between the age of 25 and 54 years.
It usually occurs in otherwise healthy persons or in association with a systemic desease.
Several clinical variants of pyoderma gangrenosum have been described.
Extremely painful ulcerations are characteristic and evolve rapidly.
Malignant pyoderma, the variant described in our case report, is an aggressive variant of ulcerative pyoderma gangrenosum, rapidly progressive and a potentially lethal ulcerative disease.
The diagnosis of pyoderma gangrenosum depends on recognition of the evolving clinical features because histopathologic changes are not specific and characteristically serological or hematological markers of the disease do not exist.
Histopathologic findings, however, always include vasculitis, either in form of the necrotizing cutaneous vasculitis (7), granulomatous (1) or lymphocytic vasculitis (2).
We report on a 36-year-old male patient, who underwent surgery for repair of an aneurysm of the aortic arch.
The aneurysm occurred two months after exacerbation of a malignant variant of pyoderma gangrenosum with nearly lethal exit.
An association of pyoderma gangrenosum with vasculitis has been described previously, but the present report is the first to describe an aortic arch aneurysm which seems to be associated with necrotizing angiitis of the vasa vasorum caused by a pyoderma gangrenosum.
We could demonstrate successful perioperative treatment for prevention of exacerbation of pyoderma gangrenosum with prednisone and clofazimine
Background and purpose: To test the association of cardiac sources of embolism with territorial type brain infarcts.
Defects of the dorsal and ventral ligament complexes of the lumbar spine results to an instability of the functional spinal unit.
For the prognosis of secondary instability due to disko-ligamentous injuries the functional insufficiency of the lasting scars is a larger problem than the primar loss of osseous stability with fast healing tendency.
The main goal of the present biomechanical study in vitro was to demonstrate the different grades of instability in the correlation to progressive disko-ligamentous defects as well as stabilisation through dynamic and static procedures.
With a transpedicular screw-ringband-system the segmental function was preserved and instability was abolished.
After rigid instrumentation with a fixateur intern remained a residual range of motion due to which can result refuse to bending moments without spondylodesis in an implant failure.
CT- or MRI-guided stereotactic procedures should be a standard in a modern neurosurgical unit.
Analysing 71 cases the indications and results of stereotactic neurosurgery are presented.
In 53 patients stereotactic serial biopsies of different intraaxial lesions were performed, in 5 patients a spontaneous haemorrhage of the basal ganglia was removed by lysis with r-tPA.
In 3 patients suffering from hydrocephalus due to diencephalic cysts a cystventricular shunt device was implanted.
In 3 patients an intracerebral abscess was aspirated and drained.
A stereotactic guided craniotomy and excision of small deep-seated lesions was performed in 6 cases.
The accuracy of stereotactic tumour biopsies was 88.7 % in our series, in accordance to other authors.
The stereotactic aspiration and drainage of an intracerebral abscess provides accurate localization and minimal cortical damage and offers the possibility of intracavitary application of antibiotics.
The stereotactic internal shunt implantation seems to be an alternative approach in the treatment of diencephalic cysts due to its minimal invasiveness and low operative risk.
The aspiration of basal ganglia haematomas with insertion of an external drainage allows the lysis of the haematoma with r-tPA or urokinase.
With stereotactic guidance small, deep-seated intraaxial lesions can be well localized and removed.
Radiotherapy of patients with prostate cancer offers an alternative to radical prostatectomy in early stages (T1-T2).
In locally advanced prostate cancer a high dose or combined radiotherapy is more effective than radical surgery with concurrent lower morbidity and mortality.
Recent developments in linear accellerator technique, the progress in dose calculation and planning techniques provide the means to apply higher doses to a given tumor volume while effectively protecting the surrounding normal tissue at the same time.
These improvements may possibly reduce the rate of therapy related side effects or complications significantly.
The combination of external beam radiotherapy and interstitial brachytherapy as well as the combination of hormone therapy and external beam radiotherapy are most likely more effective than percutaneous irradiation alone.
In special cases with a very low risk of recurrent tumor an interstitial permanent brachytherapy alone is indicated.
Future developments (i. e. intensity modulated radiotherapy - IMRT, combined thermo-radiotherapy, proton- or neutrontherapy) may further increase the rate of curative treatments in patients with prostate cancer.
Skin is the second most common site of extranodal lymphoma.
The significance of cutaneous B-cell lymphomas has been underestimated due to the lack of monoclonal antibodies and molecular genetics in former years.
Cutaneous B-cell lymphomas represent a heterogenous group of entities which show variation in histology, immunophenotype and in prognosis.
The most common entities presenting in skin are follicular lymphomas, marginal zone B-cell lymphomas, and diffuse large B-cell lymphomas.
The majority of primary cutaneous B-cell lymphomas have an excellent prognosis.
Whereas in B-cell lymphomas with secondary spread to the skin the clinical course is dependant on the prognosis of the primary lymphoma.
It is evident that primary cutaneous lymphomas are distinct from nodal lymphomas and not extranodal manifestations of their lymph-node-based counterparts.
In the current review the morphologic spectrum of cutaneous B-cell lymphomas comprising primary and secondary cutaneous B-cell lymphomas is discussed according to the WHO classification sheme.
The phencyclidine derivative ketamine is a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist with the thalamo-neocortical projection system as the primary site of action.
Racemic ketamine consists of the enantiomers S(+)-ketamine and R(-)-ketamine.
Racemic ketamine has never been considered an adequate anaesthetic agent in neurosurgical patients since  it produces regionally specific stimulation of cerebral metabolism (CMRO2) and increases cerebral blood flow (CBF) and intracranial pressure (ICP).
However, recent experiments suggest that both tracemic ketamine and S(+)-ketamine may reduce infarct size in animal models of incomplete cerebral ischaemia and brain injury.
This experimental protective effect appears to be related to decreases in Ca++ influx and maintenance of brain tissue magnesium levels due to NMDA and quisqualate receptor blockade by ketamine.
Studies in dogs have shown that racemic ketamine (2.0 mg/kg) increases CBF in the presence of the cerebral vasodilator N2O.
In contrast, studies in rats without background anaesthesia showed increases in CBF after racemic ketamine (100 mg/kg i.p.).
This suggests that the cerebrovascular effects of racemic ketamine are related to the pre-existing cerebrovascular tone induced by background anaesthetics.
Cerebrovascular CO2 reactivity was maintained regardless of the baseline cerebrovascular resistance.
There are several mechanisms by which racemic ketamine may increase CBF.
It induces dose-dependent respiratory depression with consequent mild hypercapnia in spontaneously ventilating subjects.
This produces vasodilation due to the intact cerebrovascular CO2 reactivity.
Racemic ketamine also induces regional neuroexcitation, which leads to stimulation of cerebral glucose consumption in the limbic, extrapyramidal, auditory, and sensory-motor systems.
This regional neuroexcitation with increased CMRO2 produces increases in CBF that can be blocked by infusion of barbiturates or benzodiazepines.
However, increases in CBF with racemic ketamine (1 mg/kg) may also occur during normocapnia and without changes in CMRO2.
This effect is related to some additional direct cerebral vasodilating potency of racemic ketamine based on a mechanism involving blockade of Ca++ channels.
The effects of racemic ketamine on CBF autoregulation have not been investigated systematically.
However, studies in rats have shown that CBF autoregulation was maintained with low- and high-dose S(+)-ketamine.
Infusion of racemic ketamine alters intracranial volume and ICP.
Studies in spontaneously ventilating pigs with and without intracranial hypertension have shown that racemic ketamine (0.5-5.0 mg/kg) produces increases in PaCO2 and ICP.
In contrast, identical experiments with mechanical ventilation and controlled PaCO2 showed no changes in ICP following racemic ketamine infusion.
This implies that increases in ICP are related to inadequate ventilation with consecutive hypercapnia and increases in intracranial blood volume.
However, mechanical ventilation may not be sufficient to control ICP following racemic ketamine.
Experiments in mechanically ventilated dogs indicate that racemic ketamine (2 mg/kg) increases cerebral blood volume and ICP even in the presence of normoventilation, a response that is reversible by hyperventilation or the administration of diazepam.
Studies in patients have shown that racemic ketamine (2.0 mg/kg) reduces CBF in the presence of cerebral vasodilators like halothane or N2O.
In contrast, studies in unanaesthetised humans showed increases in CBF after racemic ketamine (2-3 mg/kg).
This observation is consistent with animal studies and suggests that the cerebrovascular effects of racemic ketamine are related to the pre-existing cerebrovascular tone induced by background anaesthetics.
Dengue-Fever is a mosquito transmitted viral disease.
It is endemic mainly in South-East Asia and Afrika.
The clinical manifestation is divided into different stages.
Ocular manifestations in travellers have been rarely reported.
Sufficient and regular wetting of the cornea with a normal preocular tear film is an essential requirement for the accurate visual functioning of the eye.
Multiple factors may cause tear film instability.
Measuring the break-up time of the preocular tear film is a necessary, clinically reliable means for evaluating tear film stability.
We designed a new instrument to observe the preocular tear film at high magnification which can contribute to the in vivo imaging of the physiological and pathophysiological dynamics of the tear film and its break-up phenomena.
The prevalence of hepatitis B, hepatitis C and HIV infections among drug abuse-related fatalities in Hamburg (1985-1997) was investigated with respect to epidemiological, forensic and morphological aspects.
The purpose of this study was (1) to determine the prevalence of hepatitis B (HBV), hepatitis C (HCV) and HIV infections among drug abuse-related fatalities (drug deaths) in Hamburg from 1985 to 1997, (2) to assess the rate of multiple infections and (3) to analyze the liver histomorphology in 100 autopsied drug deaths.
Furthermore, we discuss the epidemiological and forensic aspects.
In this period 1469 drug deaths were registered with a prevalence for HBV of 35% (1997: 39%), for HCV 51% (1997: 58%), and for HIV 7% (1997: 15%).
Co-infections were common (28%) and 19% of all cases were infected with HBV and HCV.
The liver histology showed that hepatitis was frequently diagnosed (74%) and was associated with HBV and/or HCV infections (77% of all hepatitis cases).
Only 9% showed a normal liverhistology.
Forensic autopsies and monitoring of HBV, HCV and HIV infections in drug deaths represent an important tool to gain information about the individual case and the situation among i.v.
Background: An abnormal coronary flow reserve represents an early marker of impaired blood flow regulation in the natural history of coronary atherosclerosis under the impact of risk factors such as hypercholesterolemia.
Our clinical investigation was aimed at assessing noninvasively the integrative coronary flow response to dipyridamole stress in 18 consecutive patients with microvascular angina, only moderately elevated LDL-cholesterol levels (168 +/- 33 mg/dl), and reduced vasodilator capacity despite normal (n=9) or slightly abnormal (n=9) coronary arteriograms (minimal disease with luminal irregularities and/or diameter reduction <=30%) before and after 6-month lipid-lowering therapy (simvastatin).
Methods: Regional and averaged myocardial blood flow were measured at rest and after dipyridamole induced vasodilation (0.56 mg/kg) using dynamic positron emission tomography (PET) and N-13 ammonia as flow tracer related to a 3-compartment kinetic model.
Baseline data (mean +/- SD): 13 males, 5 females; mean age: 56 +/- 8 years; basal coronary flow: 90 +/- 22 ml/minx100 g; after lipid intervention: 93 +/- 18 ml/minx100 g (n.s.).
Total cholesterol decreased to 170 +/- 36 mg/dl (p<0.001); mean LDL level: 97 +/- 26 mg/dl (p<0.001).
Coronary dilator capacity increased, assessed in terms of minimal coronary resistance: 0.38 +/- 0.08 vs 0.49 +/- 0.09 units at baseline (p<0.01), myocardial blood flow under dipyridamole: 232 +/- 43 vs 186 +/- 37 ml/minx100 g at baseline (p<0.01), and instantaneous flow ratio: 2.6 +/- 0.7 vs 2.2 +/- 0.6 (p=0.06).
Concomitantly, a considerable regression of angina was noticed in the majority of patients.
Conclusions: An improvement of the non-invasively determined integrative dipyridamole induced coronary vasodilator capacity may be achieved after 6 months by intensive lipid lowering at a very early stage of coronary atherosclerosis.
Consequently, aggressive cholesterol-lowering therapy represents an antiischemic and antianginal approach suggesting, at least in part, functional reversal and probably prevention of further disease progression.
We report the case of a a 60 year-old worker in the pharmaceutical industry who suffered from recurring contact dermatitis.
Initially the contact dermatitis was limited to the hands; later on it became generalized.
The patient had been working on a drug filling line in a pharmaceutical plant for more than 20 years.
Eight years after starting this job he had developed allergic hand dermatitis to 2,6-diaminopyridine (patch test positive); this healed upon cessation of exposure.
Ten years later he again developed hand dermatitis which progressed to generalized dermatitis and conjunctivitis.
Under systemic and local therapy with corticosteroids and cessation of work, it healed nearly completly.
Four months after returning to work, the patient experienced a first episode of severe asthma and generalized dermatitis with conjunctivitis following exposure to hydroxychloroquine the day before.
The asthma and dermatitis improved after systemic corticosteroid therapy and stopping work.
His condition continued to fluctuate, when though the patient was transferred at work and now wore rubber gloves.
Eight months later he again developed a generalized dermatitis.
Patch testing revealed delayed-type sensitizations to hydroxychloroquine (tested in concentrations of 0.1%, 0.5%, 1% and 2%).
Equivalent tests in five healthy volunteers were negative.
The patch test reactions were pustular, while a biopsy was interpreted as a multiform contact dermatitis reaction.
Bronchial exposure with hydroxychloroquine dust produced a delayed bronchial obstruction over the next 20 hours, which progressed to fever and generalized erythema (hematogenous contact dermatitis).
After removing exposure to 2,6-diaminopyridine and hydroxychloroquine, the patient went on to develop a contact dermatitis to latex (patch test positive).
However, skin prick tests with latex and patch tests with rubber additiva were negative.
Hydroxychloroquine is well known to cause drug reactions.
To our knowledge, contact dermatitis to this substance has not yet been reported.
It is noteworthy that the patch test reactions were pustular and of multiform morphology and that bronchial exposure to the allergen resulted in asthma and a generalized drug reaction.
Pathogenetically the asthmatic reaction seems to be on a delayed-type mechanism as is also seen with ampicillin, cobalt and nickel induced asthma.
A 45 years old female runner developed a bilateral tendinopathy of the Achilles tendon after repeated antimicrobiotical treatment with ciprofloxacin.
One month later the right Achilles tendon ruptured without any sudden pain.
MRI revealed degenerative changes of the left Achilles tendon; on the right side the tendon was ruptured with a dehiscence of 4 cm between both ends of the tendon.
The tendon was reconstructed surgically.
The histological analysis showed cystic changes with focal necrosis.
This finding differ from findings in non drug induced tendinopathies.
After antimicrobiotical treatment with ciprofloxacin the side effect of a tendon disorder must be considered.
The impairment of the tendon may be as strong that a tendon rupture may occur at daily living activities without any typical clinical symptoms.
The recent results obtained from investigations based on molecular biological techniques have led to a better understanding of recurrent genetic causes important for the pathogenesis of tumors.
Several genes have been identified as being involved in the development of cancer.
In many cases, the activation of oncogenes or the inactivation of tumor-suppressor genes is the predominant reason for cancerogenic cell transformation.
Functional dysregulation is frequently the consequence of mutations, resulting in an alteration of the primary structure of the DNA.
As our understanding of the nature, function, and interaction of these genes evolves, new opportunities for early diagnosis, classification, prevention, and treatment of malignant tumors will arise.
The present report summarizes the current molecular biological aspects of several oncogenes (erbB, ras, myc, raf, fos, jun, bcl, mdm 2, myb, kit CSF1R, met) and tumor suppressor genes (p 53, rb, mts) involved in lung-cancer development with respect to the pathology of lung tumors, including the importance of these genes as far as the clinical course of the disease is concerned.
Hyperbaric Oxygen (HBO) therapy is a kind of medical treatment in which a patient breathes 100% of oxygen inside a pressure chamber while the pressure of the chamber is increased to a point higher than sea level pressure.
It is strongly based on clearly defined physical laws and physiological regularities.
For the clinical use of HBO therapy, according to international recommendations, there are several commonly accepted indications in which HBO either is the only causative life-saving kind of treatment, or is an essential and oftenly decisive component of a comprehensive interdisciplinary intensive care therapy.
Among potential adverse effects, barotrauma of the lungs and especially oxygen toxicity to the central nervous system have to be mentioned.
Clinical use of HBO therefore requires special knowledge of its effects, risks, and adverse effects, a clear and distinct indication, and the ability and skills to keep complications under control by means of intensive care or emergency medical measures.
The clinical use of hyperbaric oxygen with its interdisciplinary-like character of emergency medicine or intensive care therapy therefore should be an additional, most interesting field of activity for the anaesthesiologist.
Although arthroscopy of the ankle joint has been well established, there are only very few reports about arthroscopy in ankle fracture treatment.
In order to sytematically analyze the intraarticular lesions of ankle fractures, we assessed 196 consecutive ankle fractures immediately before ORIF.
There were 94 male and 101 female patients with an average age of 47.8 years (16-88 years).
There were more cartilage lesions found than expected, and cartilage lesions were not noted more frequently in type C-fractures than in type B-fractures.
In both fracture types, an increasing amount of cartilage lesions was found from group 1 to 3.
In addition, more ligament injuries were found than expected, especially in the B.1- and B.2-fractures.
Successful arthroscopic surgery was performed in 26 cases: internal fixation, 9; loose body removal, 7; ligament reposition, 5; cartilage smoothening, 4; and cartilage fracture repair, 1.
In one case, a periostal flap could not be reduced, and in another case, the internal fixation of the medial malleolus was not stable.
In summary, arthroscopy was shown to be a very helpful diagnostic tool in ankle fractures.
As long-term results are not yet available, it remains, however, unclear as to whether arthroscopy may improve the success of the following ORIF.
Arthroscopy was also shown to be a successful tool for several closed surgical procedures.
Of these, percutaneous internal fixation of the medial malleolus under arthroscopic view may be an excellent indication.
Objective: Transcultural adaption of the two most widely used and accepted functional indices in ankylosing spondylitis, the Bath Ankylosing Spondylitis Functional Index (BASFI) and Dougados Functional Index (D-FI).
Methods: The instruments were translated and tested for internal consistency (Cronbach's coefficient alpha), test-retest reliability (intraclass correlation coefficient, ICC), construct validity (testing for association with Schober's test, finger floor distance, occiput wall distance, frequency and duration of awakenings at night, and a visual analog scale pain), and responsiveness (standardized response mean, SRM).
Results: The study sample consisted of 72 patients of a randomized, controlled clinical trial receiving either Diclofenac or placebo.
Visual assessment of distribution patterns revealed a ceiling effect of both instruments.
Both questionnaires had a high internal consistency (Cronbach alpha: 0.81 [BASFI], 0.85 [D-FI] and a high test-retest reliability (ICC: 0.92 [BASFI], 0.89 [D-FI]).
The limited responsiveness to Diclofenac treatment (SRM: 0.46 [BASFI],  0.33 [D-FI]) may be related to the selected study sample.
The BASFI was significantly correlated with all tested validation parameters.
The  D-FI was only significantly correlated with finger floor distance, occiput wall distance, and duration of awakenings at night.
Conclusion: The transculturally adapted version of both functional indices are valid, reliable, and internally consistent.
Because of psychometric advantages, the BASFI may be preferred in clinical trial settings.
The role of radiotherapy of the pelvic lymphatic pathways in patients with node positive prostate cancer remains uncertain.
Interpretation of the few prospective studies (RTOG 75-06 and 77-06) is hampered by severe flaws in the study design.
Extension of the radiation to the paraaortal region shows no advantage over radiation of the pelvic lymphatics alone and is not warranted.
Data on longterm side-effects are only available from older studies with outdated radiation techniques.
According to more recent studies short term side effects are considerably higher with radiation of the pelvic lymphatics when compared with radiation of the prostate alone.
In summary radiation of the lymphatic pathways in lymph node positive prostate cancer cannot currently be considered as standard treatment and should be carried out within clinical studies.
In reconstruction of cartilage defects, autogenous transplantation is known as a reliable and experienced method.
Although a clinical application has not been reported until now, tissue engineering permits in vitro production of autogenous cartilage transplants.
Nevertheless, in both methods the cartilage is exposed to individually varying resorptive mechanisms.
Among other methods for in vivo tissue protection, the encapsulation with a semipermeable polyelectrolytecomplex membrane could guarantee sufficient protection against resorptive influences.
Human septal cartilage was encapsulated (group 1) with polyelectrolytecomplex membranes and subcutaneously implanted on the back of thymusaplastic nude mice.
Cartilage implants without encapsulation (group 2) were used as control.
Scanning electron microscopy and histochemical investigations were performed 1, 4, 8, 12 and 16 weeks after implantation.
Group 1 showed no signs of resorption and chronic inflammation at all.
In contrast, group 2 presented, correlating to the time of implanta-tion, increasing signs of cell death and fibrotic transformation, representing an increased activity of resorption.
In conclusion, tissue encapsulation with a polyelectrolytecomplex membrane could ensure a sufficient protection of human cartilage transplants from resorptive influences.
For the plastic-reconstructive surgeon the desired result becomes more calculable.
Subjective time-experience and objective time-estimation were examined in 20 endogenous, 20 neurotic depressives, and 15 healthy volunteers.
Subjective experience of past and anticipated future time was more extended in both depressive groups than in healthy controls.
Objective time estimation differed between depressives and controls concerning relatively long time spans whereas very short time spans were correctly estimated also by depressives.
There were no significant differences between endogenous and neurotic depressives.
The perception of extended time normalized during treatment.
The depressives' time perception, differences correlated with the extent of depressive psychopathological symptoms and - to a lesser degree - with retardation.
The findings support the hypotheses of anthropological phenomenology concerning disturbed time perception and estimation in depressives.
Amelioration of experienced time-extension in intentionally structured time spans compared to empty time spans suggests psychotherapeutic consequences in the sense of Lewinsohn.
We investigated whether the free-to-total prostate-specific antigen (PSA) ratio (f-PSA/t-PSA ratio; i. e. percentage of free PSA) represents a better discriminator for the detection of cancer of the prostate (CaP).
In a retrospective analysis, the persentage of free PSA was determined in the sera of 35 patients with histologically proven benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) and 35 patients with clinically localized CaP.
Patients with urolithiasis (n = 33) served as a control group.
Serum levels of free PSA and total PSA were determined employing a chemiluminescent enzyme immunoassay.
Patients with CaP demonstrated a lower percentage of free PSA (median: 8.7) than patients with BPH (median: 20.0; P < 0.001) and those with urolithiasis (median: 18.8; P < 0.001).
Determination of the percentage of free PSA enhances the differentiation between BPH and CaP and may reduce the number of unnecessary biopsies in patients with an elevated PSA.
Confirmation of our preliminary results is required.
Psychological problems in children and parents related to children's atopic eczema (AE) may impede the success of treatment.
We studied the question, if behavior-based parental education in groups (DPE) or standardized video-education (VPE) could enhance dermatological treatment effects and reduce skin-damaging behaviors in children and stress in their mothers.
Sevoflurane degrades in CO2 absorbents to produce compound A, which may have  hepatotoxic potential in humans.
Several recent studies in human volunteers have been performed to evaluate this potential.
Three studies have evaluated sevoflurane administered to volunteers using a 3% concentration for 8 h duration at approximately 2 L/min flow rate.
The initial investigation found high excretion of protein, glucose and renal tubular enzymes in the urine of the volunteers receiving sevoflurane.
Subsequent investigations using identical protocols found more minor or absent changes in excretion of these markers.
One additional investigation in volunteers studied 3% sevoflurane anesthesia for 4 h duration using a low-flow (1 L/min) technique.
No significant excretion of protein, glucose or renal enzymes was observed.
Application of these results to clinical practice must be interpreted in light of the experimental nature of the anesthetic administration.
Although some controversy remains, these data, combined with results of recent studies in surgical patients, suggest that renal function following modest duration low-flow sevoflurane anesthesia is similar to that following isoflurane anesthesia.
Background: The microbial colonization of the intestinal tract in newborns begins during delivery.
Streptococci and Escherichia coli pave the way for the bifidobacterial dominance typical in breast-fed newborns.
They provide optimal living conditions for anaerobic bifidobacteria by withdrawal of intraluminal oxygen.
A mixed intestinal flora is established on infant formula feeding in the infant.
Bifidobacteria, Bacteroides, Enterobacteriaceae, streptococci and lactobacilli are the main genera of this mixed intestinal flora.
This represents an intermediate stage of the microflora in adults.
The bifidogenic effect of mothers' milk is based on the active substances it contains, which selectively enhance the growth of bifidobacteria, whereas other active substances suppress the growth of the accompanying flora.
Bifidus-enhancing factors in breast-feeding are lactose, oligosaccharides, glycoproteins such as glycomacropeptide and the inoculation with bifidobacteria deriving from the skin surface of the mother.
Factors directed to the suppression of the accompanying microflora are antibodies, lactoferrin, lysozyme, fatty acids and monoglycerides that act as antimicrobial substances and the comparatively low protein and iron content in mothers' milk.
A bifidus-inhibiting colonization of the intestinal tract with pathogenic germs is caused by maternal birth-canal infections, which are now known to be the most frequent reason for premature births.
An increasing number of surgical deliveries, the separation of the newborn infant from its mother, and the generous use of antibiotics contribute to the delayed colonization of bifidobacteria and to the development of life-threatening nosocomial infections.
Counteractive measures against this disastrous situation are the preferential use of bifidobacteria-preserving antibiotics and the inoculation of lyophilized bifidobacteria.
Between January 1983 and December 1987, metatarsal head-resections were performed on 203 patients, comprising a total of 370 feet, using the Hueter/Mayo and Hoffmann procedure.
Seventy-two patients, comprising a total of 126 feet, were available for post-operative review after an average of 11.4 years from the date of the original operations.
The information obtained from standardized questionnaires was compared to the information found in each patient's file.
In addition, every available pre- and post-operative x-ray taken from 1983 to 1987 was analyzed.
Thus, with an average follow-up period of 5.6 years, the changes found in the pre- and post-operative x-rays from a total of 183 feet could be compared.
Before the operations, nearly 100% of the examined feet suffered from painful synovial hypertrophy and erosion of the metatarsophalangeal joints with dislocation and subluxation, causing approximately 70% of all patients to have great difficulties in walking.
After the operations, however, 90.2% of the patients reported that this condition had noticeably improved or had completely disappeared.
In fact, 87.5% of all patients reported a lasting improvement in their ability to walk longer distances.
As the main criteria in determining the success of an operation (namely, the noticeable reduction of pain and increased mobility) were achieved in 87.5% of the patients, we consider the metatarsal head-resection a reliable method of correcting forefoot deformities in rheumatoid arthritis.
Bone metabolism is influenced by systemic and local acting hormons.
Bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) as representatives of the latter substances are known to have the ability for ectopic bone formation.
Within this study, we investigated the influence of different growth factors on the proliferation- and differentiation rate of osteoblast-like cells.
For that purpose, human osteoblast-like cells (HPOC) were incubated in the presence of either recombinant BMP-4 of the genome of xenopus laevis (rxBMP-4), recombinant human BMP 2 (rhBMP-2), transforming growth factor-ß (TGF-ß) or basic fibroblast growth factor (rh-bFGF) in two different concentrations each (10 ng/ml and 50 ng/ml).
Cell proliferation was measured within a MTT [3-(4,5-Dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-Diphenyltetrazolium Bromid] assay, the amount of cell differentiation by the activity of alcaline phosphatase.
Rx-BMP-4 induced a differentiation of HPOC to almost the same extent as rhBMP-2, whereas the addition of rh-bFGF, applied at the same concentration, failed to have any influence on cell differentiation.
However, rh-bFGF provoked an increase in cell proliferation when compared with unstimulated HPOC, while rhBMP-2 and rxBMP-4 showed no effect on proliferation.
TGF-ß influenced bone proliferation as well as differenciation significantly.
The equipotent effect of recombinant human BMP-2 and recombinant BMP-4 obtained from Xenopus laevis with regard to differentiation and proliferation of human primary osteoblast-like cells originates either in the fact that target cells have receptors for BMP 2 as well as BMP 4, or that both BMP's link to the same receptor with almost the same affinity.
Sonography has provided an important addition to the tools available for the diagnosis of the soft tissues in the head and neck region.
The ENT surgeon himself is able to examine pathological formations by this quick, non-invasive and, last but not least, less expensive method.
Due to the high resolution of the procedure the chance of detecting even small changes is increased and the exactness of diagnosis of pathological lymph nodes of the neck has been significantly improved compared to palpation alone.
Ultrasound has replaced the sialographic procedures in the field of diagnostic evaluation of salivary gland disease in the daily practice except for special indications.
After inauguration of color Doppler sonography non-invasive evaluation of vascular stenosis of the large cervical vessels concerning their hemodynamic effects has become possible.
This issue is important for the differential dignosis of otoneurological diseases such as sudden hearing loss, vertigo and tinnitus.
Additionally, the extent of perfusion of space-occupying lesions can be easily examined, and therefore the risk of mass bleeding can be preoperatively assessed by this method without harm to the patient.
Especially carotid body tumors may be diagnosed with high accuracy by the evidence of significant diffuse perfusion of the lesion.
In several studies the specificity of the assessment of cervical lymph node disease could be increased by examination of resistance indices.
However, other authors have shown inconsistent results in differentiation of benign and malignant lumps; therefore, final judgment does not seem to be possible yet.
Use of echo-contrast agents to enhance the ultrasound signal seems to be a promising approach for future developments in color Doppler imaging.
Painful stiffness of the shoulder is an ill-defined clinical entity that is difficult to assess and delicate to treat.
The nomenclature used is broad and includes terms such as frozen shoulder, adhesive capsulitis, focal algodystrophy, stiff shoulder, contracted shoulder, and others.
Apart from its idiopathic form, the disease can be initiated by trauma, infection, tumour, radiation, systemic and local metabolic disturbances.
Pathoanatomically, the common denominator is an inflammatory vascular proliferation followed by thickening, scarring, and retraction of the joint capsule.
The inflammatory process often starts at the rotator interval and may extend to the subacromial space.
The prognosis for patients in whom metastatic renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is not treated is unfavorable, with a reported 5-year survival of 0-18 %.
Before the era of immunotherapy and in the absence of effective nonsurgical therapy, resection of metastases was the accepted way to prolong survival, giving a 5-year survival of 7-69 %.
Retrospective studies have shown that several clinical factors are associated with a relatively good prognosis.
Some patients will benefit from resection of metastases, but most patients with metastatic RCC are not candidates for such aggressive surgery.
The use of interleukin-2 has demonstrated that immunotherapy can produce durable remissions.
Without randomized trials, it is difficult to know whether survival is longer than that in untreated patients, but there is clear evidence that immunotherapy improves survival and yields long-lasting remissions in selected patients.
Many questions remain concerning quality of life and the benefit-to-risk ratio of immunotherapy, but it is the most effective treatment for metastatic RCC.
After loss of active glenohumeral motion the arm cannot be positioned in space and function is impaired.
Fusion of the glenohumeral joint creates a new platform for the movement of elbow, hand and fingers and leads to an improvement of function.
The use of the reconstructive plate makes the operation easier.
Shoulder fusion is especially suited if the function of elbow and hand is well preserved and if the patient is physically active.
But fusion is definite and the options of muscle transfer operations and above elbow amputation have to be considered.
The unreamed femoral nail (UFN) system, with its numerous proximal interlocking options, allows a minimal invasive surgical procedure for the treatment of nearly all femoral fracture patterns.
Sixty-six fractures, 5 cases of osteolysis or pathologic fractures, 2 limb shortenings and 1 lengthening (monorail technique) and 3 cases of pseudarthrosis were stabilised with the UFN from July 1994 to December 1996.
The fractures were analysed according to the AO classification.
We found 31 polytrauma patients with an mean ISS of 21.8 and a mean PTS of 25.4.
Most of the multiply injured patients (n = 26) were stabilised with the UFN primarily.
Follow-up of 44 patients ranged from 4 to 18 months postoperatively.
According to our clinical and radiological score the results were excellent in 34 % of cases, good in 36.3 %, poor in 20.4 % and bad in 9 %.
Average fracture healing time was about 9.8 weeks.
Fractures of the atlas account for 1-2 % of all vertebral fractures.
We divide atlas fractures into 5 groups: isolated fractures of the anterior arch of the atlas, isolated fractures of the posterior arch, combined fractures of the anterior and posterior arch (so-called Jefferson fractures), isolated fractures of the lateral mass and fractures of the transverse process.
Isolated fractures of the anterior or posterior arch are benign and are treated conservatively with a soft collar until the neck pain has disappeared.
Jefferson fractures are divided into stable and unstable fracture depending on the integrity of the transverse ligament.
Stable Jefferson fractures are treated conservatively with good outcome while unstable Jefferson fractures are probably best treated operatively with a posterior atlanto-axial or occipito-axial stabilization and fusion.
The authors preferred treatment modality is the immediate open reduction of the dislocated lateral masses combined with a stabilization in the reduced position using a transarticular screw fixation C1/C2 according to Magerl.
This has the advantage of saving the atlanto-occipital joints and offering an immediate stability which makes immobilization in an halo or Minerva cast superfluous.
In late instabilities C1/2 with incongruency of the lateral masses occurring after primary conservative treatment, an occipito-cervical fusion is indicated.
Isolated fractures of the lateral masses are very rare and may, if the lateral mass is totally destroyed, be a reason for an occipito-cervical fusion.
Fractures of the transverse processes may be the cause for a thrombosis of the vertebral artery.
No treatment is necessary for the fracture itself.
Reported is the case of a 36-year-old man with neurofibromatosis type 1 with lethal haemorrhage from rupture of the left common iliac artery.
Histologically and immunohistochemically, no hints on angiodysplasia as a possible cause of bleeding were detected.
Considering the literature and the histological findings in the area of rupture, a local weakness of the vascular wall caused by the neighbouring neurofibromatous proliferates was most probably the reason for bleeding.
We report on a 2-year-old girl with chronic bullous disease of childhood (CBDC).
Concomitantly with a feverish gastrointestinal infection caused by Salmonella enteritidis, the child presented with lesions resembling impetigo contagiosa on the legs and face.
Following antibiotic treatment with cephalosporins p.o.
she developed typical symptoms of CBDC, i.e.
tense blisters on erythematous skin in the perineal area, on the flexor aspects of the thighs and upper arms and on the face.
Direct immunofluorescence revealed a linear IgA deposition along the basement membrane zone, confirming the diagnosis of CBDC.
These lesions cleared rapidly after treatment with dapsone p.o.
This case prompted us to consider new aspects of the pathogenesis, clinical entity and treatment of this rare bullous disease of childhood.
Systemic administration of strontium-89 is an important option for pain relief in advanced prostate carcinoma with multiple osseous metastases.
Recently, rhenium-186-HEDP was introduced as a new substance which has important advantages (shorter physical half-life, scintigraphic imaging, dose distribution).
The myelosuppressive effect can be estimated more accurately in advance, so that adverse effects can be reduced and the treatment can be repeated after a shorter period of time and more often.
Our study comprises 15 treatments with rhenium-186-HEDP in advanced prostate cancer patients using the 1.4- to 2-fold standard dose.
The response rate, estimated as reduction in pain and increase in patient mobility, was 87 % with no major myelosuppressive effects.
The mean duration of pain relief was 4-6 weeks.
All four patients with repeated therapy were also responding to the second treatment.
Radionuclide therapy for painful osseous metastases with rhenium-186-HEDP appears to be an effective and, even at higher doses, safe procedure.
Cyclophosphamide is a potent immunosuppressive drug which is widely used to treat renal and central nervous system manifestation of Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE).
It is employed especially to prevent renal failure in lupus nephritis.
Within the last decade intravenous cyclophosphamide bolus therapy has become the standard therapy in severe SLE due to its tendency towards a higher efficacy and fewer side effects as compared to oral application.
Studies on the slightly more cost-effective oral cyclophosphamide bolus therapy have recently been published, however, there are no data on long-term results yet.
Here, we review the effects and side effects of cyclophosphamide as well as recent clinical studies on cyclophosphamide bolus therapy in SLE.
Because of the possible side effects, especially the high risk of malignancies, which sharply increases at a cumulative dose of approximately 60g, cyclophosphamide should be used cautiously.
Cyclophosphamide bolus therapy should only be performed in hospitals with special experience.
The optimal time to perform acute ACL reconstruction with respect to arthrofibrosis is discussed.
Most authors prefer delayed surgery.
The definition of the term "acute" varies between 48 hours and 4 weeks.
In this study the limit was set at 60 hours.
Acute ACL reconstruction was performed in 39 patients and delayed surgery in 35 after they had regained full ROM.
The incidence of arthrofibrosis was not higher in the acutely operated group whereas overall inability to work was 44% lower in this population.
When the indication is clear, we think that acute ACL reconstruction may be performed within 60 hours without a higher risk of postoperative development of arthrofibrosis.
Nowadays, this strategy should also be considered for economic reasons.
After some introductory remarks on the influence of psychosocial risk factors on the developmental outcome of premature infants this review summarizes the current knowledge about intervention programs for prematures and their parents with a special focus on parent-centered programs.
Positive effects of intervention programs are found in an improvement of cognitive development, parental sensitivity and the home environment.
Only parent-centered interventions enhanced the quality of parent-infant interaction.
It is questioned if those effects are also reliable for very premature infants and are found in the long term.
Further programs should focus on parent- and parent-infant centered interventions.
Methodological problems of intervention studies and further research perspectives on parent-centered interventions are discussed.
The surgical therapy of the rupture of a distal biceps tendon and a modified postoperative treatment is described.
Mainpoint is the early treatment in anaclisis of Kleinert as it is standardized in the treatment of ruptures of the flexor tendons of the hand.
A forearm orthesis with a simply ROM-joint without reboundmechanism was used.
Possible benefits are shown and further industrial evolution seems to be indicated.
Matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) and their tissue inhibitors (TIMP) are involved in important processes of tumor invasion and metastasis.
In the study presented, matrix metalloproteinase 1 (MMP1) and 3 (MMP3), the tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase 1 (TIMP1) and the complex MMP1/TIMP1 were measured by ELISA tests specific for these proteins in blood plasma.
These components have been investigated in prostate cancer patients (PCa) with metastases (n = 18; T2, 3, 4 pN1, 2M1), prostate cancer patients without metastases (n = 29; T2, 3 pN0M0), patients with benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH; n = 29) and in healthy men (n = 35).
Mean values of MMP1 and of the complex MMP1/TIMP1 were not different among the four groups.
The mean values of MMP3 and especially TIMP1 were significantly higher in prostate cancer patients with metastases compared with controls, BPH patients and prostate cancer patients without metastases.
Ten of these 18 patients had TIMP1 levels higher than the upper reference limit.
TIMP1 concentrations correlate to the tumor stage but not to the tumor grade.
These results indicate, that TIMP1 could be an potential marker for metastases in prostate cancer patients.
The interventional occlusion of atrial septal defects still represents an experimental approach.
As in all intracardiac implants able the double umbrella device (ASDOS) is affected by late complications, particularly when involving umbrella thrombosis and umbrella dislocations.
The demonstration of 4 case reports shows that late postinterventional complications can manifest in unspecific cardial and noncardial symptoms in patients with an ASDOS device.
The diagnosis of a late complication was in all cases confirmed by transesophageal echocardiography and represents an indication for immediate surgical explantation.
For early diagnosis and safe handling of late complications after ASDOS implantation the knowledge of the emergency physician about postinventional problems of this device is essential.
Every ASDOS patient who is suspected of suffering from late postinterventional complications should undergo immediate transesophageal echocardiography.
The emergency physician should get in touch with the implantation center immediately.
Furthermore, the concept of interventional occlusion therapy of atrial septum defects needs further development to avoid late complications.
The goal of cardiocerebral resuscitation is to return to the pre-arrest level of neurological function and to reintegrate the patient into his former social circumstances.
This study evaluated the long-term outcome of patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrests in a country-area.
The economic burden of congestive heart failure is significant.
Approximately 1 to 2% of total health care expenditure is attributed to the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of congestive heart failure.
A great share of this expenditure is related to the costs of long-term complications and productivity losses.
In order to manage these costs, providers and policymakers increasingly have to focus on economicaly attractive interventions.
Teleconsultation is a consultation between two or more physicians about the diagnostic work-up and therapeutic strategy in the treatment of an individual case by means of modern telematics.
Due to more complex therapeutic strategies and legally defined formal requirements, the need for teleconsultation will increase significantly in the future.
Rapid technical improvements in telematics will progressively facilitate the practical performance of teleconsultation (based upon an ISDN network in the beginning, later on by the use of a national health network).
The medicolegal aspects of teleconsultation have already been defined sufficiently for use in surgery.
However, the question of adequate financial compensation for this type of medical service is still unclear.
All 459 surgeons and orthopedists in private practice in Berlin (approx.
3.5 Million inhabitants) were contacted in March 1997 and asked to cooperate.
An 18-point questionnaire was sent out to record the physician's experience with atraumatic and posttraumatic neck complaints, which was returned by only 112 (25%).
According to their assessment these physicians treated ca.
47 000 atraumatic patients with cervical complaints and ca.
7800 with a history of a preceeding trauma over a 12-month-period (1996).
All responders had treated patients with posttraumatic complaints; about 60% stated having treated between 20 and 60 patients per year, 25% a smaller and 15% a greater number of patients.
The average treatment time was stated to be 2-5 weeks by 60% of the physicians, 10% listed a peak of 6-7 weeks and another 10% in excess of this peak.
Half of the physicians stated having also treated patients with a cervical trauma not caused by another person (a total of 500 cases).
Symptoms/findings were considered as specific for a traumatic origin by ca.
50% of the physicians and as nonspecific by the other half.
It is noteworthy that the physician's point of view was influenced by personal accident experience (accident as a car passenger): 54% of the 26 physicians with posttraumatic cervical complaints considered these symptoms to be traumaspecific compared to only 35% of 40 physicians with accidents but without cervical symptoms.
The statement that financial gains are frequently a motivating factor for patients that influenced the symptoms and course was confirmed by 22% of the physicians without accident experience compared to 62% of the physicians with accidents without cervical involvement.
Of the physicians 32% were already familiar with personal cervical complaints in middle age unrelated to trauma and another 18% considered them sometimes a disease parameter.
The "subject physician" in the context of "whiplash injury" is not yet sufficiently investigated but seems to be an interesting topic of further research.
To measure dilation of large retinal branch vessels.
The paper reminds of the many psychiatrists, neurologists, and pathologists connected with scientific work in neuropathology who were expelled from Germany between 1933 and 1939 because of defamation by the Nuremberg Laws or because of their political opposition.
Many of these colleagues saw their only way out as suicide.
Short biographies give an orientation about the destiny of the expelled physicians in their host countries.
The effort made after 1945 to give these emigrated colleagues again an adaequate position in Germany have not been very intensive.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is used as a diagnostic tool for special indications in oral and maxillofacial surgery.
We describe a new MRI technique that presents images in a panoramic view analogous to orthopantomography.
This technique is based on three-dimensional T1- and T2-weighted sequences.
The familiar panoramic view in MRI provides better orientation and makes diagnosis faster and easier.
However, the acquisition time is long (6-12 min per sequence), with a correspondingly high risk of motion artifacts.
Moreover, the final workup is also time-consuming.
These restrictions could be overcome by progress in hardware and software.
There are promising indications for dental MRI.
During recent years home ventilation has been shown to be useful for a growing number of patients with neuromuscular diseases and respiratory insufficiency caused by weakness of the respiratory muscles.
Despite its technical simplicity, home ventilation leads to a number of social, ethical, medical and infrastructural problems.
This consensus paper discusses the special situation of patients with neuromuscular diseases in home ventilation and describes the current thinking in the following topics: (1) definition of home ventilation; (2) aims of home ventilation; (3) indications and preconditions of home ventilation; (4) techniques and forms of home ventilatory support; (5) preparation for and practical questions of home ventilation; (6) stopping home ventilation.
Pseudo-obstruction of the colon is characterized by a massive colonic dilatation without mechanical obstruction.
It is rarely after hip surgery, however, untreated it may be complicated by a life threatening perforation of the colon.
In a retrospective analysis we reviewed 11 patients (4 women, 7 men, mean age 75.2 years, range 67 to 86 years) with pseudo-obstruction of the colon after hip surgery in the years 1995 to 1998.
In relation to all patients aged 65 years and older who underwent surgery of the hip, the prevalence was 1.06%.
The leading clinical symptom was abdominal distension.
On plain x-rays, dilatation of the colon measured 13.3 cm on average (9-16 cm).
In two patients (18%) adaequate application of drugs stimulating the gastro-intestinal motility was sufficient, whereas in 8 patients (73%) colonoscopic decompression had to be performed.
In three of these, the procedure failed and because of persistent symtoms a coecostomy was performed.
One patient underwent immediate laparotomy because of peritonitis.
2 patients (18%) died because of a complicated course.
Non operative treatment should not exceed 24 hours, endoscopic decompression and tube placement is considered as the treatment of choice.
In cases of failure of these procedures, perforation of the colon and/or peritonism, urgent laparotomy with open decompression by a coecostomy is essential.
Anti-semitism increased from year to year in Nazi Germany from 1933 to 1945.
The fear of annihilation resulted in a surge of suicides.
The suicides of at least 9 Jewish dermatologists has been documented.
Their mean age was 65 years.
Couples often committed suicide together.
At the end of World War II, the head of the dermatological department of the Prague University committed suicide.
We assume the same happened in Rostock and Dresden.
The president of the German Dermatological Society (DDG) committed suicide on March 27, 1945.
The motives of these dermatologists were obviously the collapse of Nazism and the fear of relatiatory measures.
Biocoral is a biomaterial derived from natural corals, and it has surgical applications.
Since 1992 the author has been using this material as a bone graft substitute in maxillofacial surgery.
Seventy-seven clinical implantations were done for different indications.
The results suggest that coral grafts are well tolerated and become partially ossified when the calcified skeleton is resorbed.
This material has been demonstrated to be successful.
Aim: An overview on the evidence-based indications for an immunosuppressive treatment with azathioprine in chronic inflammatory bowel diseases is given.
Background: The aim of the study was the evaluation of how ophthalmological diagnoses and the proportion of multiply handicapped children has changed within the last 20 years at a state school for visually handicapped and blind children.
Introduction: Visual impairment as the initial symptom of leukemia is rare.
Although retinal involvement during leukemia is frequent, a leukemic macular lesion is an exception.
Introduction: It was our aim to evaluate the results of laparoscopic transabdominal preperitoneal hernia repair (TAPP) with regard to recurrent hernias treated in our department.
Methods: Included were 276 operations for first or subsequent recurrence of inguinal hernia previously treated with suture repair.
All final repairs were carried out using the TAPP technique.
The data were collected prospectively.
The patients were examined 2 weeks and 1 year postoperatively.
The rate of follow-up amounted to 78.1 % at 1 year after operation.
Results: Perioperative complications were monitored prospectively and divided into intraoperative, minor and major.
The overall complication rate amounted to 9 %, major complications 5.3 %.
The re-recurrence rate was 0.4 %.
Conclusions: Because of the general advantages of laparoscopic surgery and the low recurrence rate we prefer laparoscopic hernioplasty using the TAPP technique.
Diseases of the hindfoot are associated with considerable functional impairment and therefore may hamper patients' movements during gait considerably.
Because of biomechanical overload, articular structures, tendons and ligaments are prone to early degenerative changes during the course of rheumatic diseases as visible with plain film radiography, sonography (US), or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Findings may occur as arthritis of major joints or in the form of fibroostitis and bursitis of the os calcis.
Despite the progressive course of rheumatic diseases and characteristic imaging findings, high variability of X-ray signs may occur.
Plain film radiograms and high-resolution ultrasonography play a key role in imaging rheumatic diseases of the hindfoot.
MRI supports imaging diagnosis in selected cases.
The principal goals of diagnostic imaging are precise and reproducible documentation of morphologic abnormalities and differentiated analysis for planning proper conservative or surgical treatment.
Background: We evaluated the prevalence of the loss of visual acuity due to loss of the central portion of the visual field and foveolar fixation in the first week after glaucoma filtering surgery.
The aim of the present study was to test polylactic acid material as a controlled release carrier for polypeptide growth factors.
Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) was incorporated into DL polylactic acid (PLA) pellets under hyperbaric CO2 pressure in two different ways.
(1) Lyophilized bFGF was crushed and mixed with PLA granules, filled into cylindric moulds of 5 x 3 mm, and submitted to hyperbaric CO2 pressure.
(2) Lyophilized bFGF was reconstituted in phosphate buffer, mixed with PLA granules, and relyophilized.
In vitro assessment of bFGF release from the PLA implants by immunoassay showed that loading of PLA with crushed lyophilized bFGF resulted in a rapid and high release, while loading by solubilized bFGF and relyophilization led to a low and more regular release of the polypeptide growth factor.
Intestinal neuronal dysplasia (IND) was initially described as a developmental abnormality of the submucous plexus in children.
In recent years this abnormality has also been observed in adults with chronic constipation.
The aim of this study was a morphometric characterization of this disease.
The investigation was performed with 10 adults with IND, compared with 10 healthy control probands.
The best diagnostic indicator of IND proved to be the detection of 6-10 giant ganglia with more than 7 nerve cells in 15 biopsy sections.
IND is an interesting cause of chronic constipation which can be histologically verified.
Extracorporal shock-wave application (ESWA) has been used in the treatment of stones located in the kidneys, bile, pancreas and the glandula parotis.
In the last 2 years several studies have shown the benefit of ESWA in the treatment of soft-tissue disorders and tendinosis calcarea.
To date, the exact mechanism is unknown.
Local hyperemia following damage or afferent inhibition is discussed.
The possibilities and indications of ESWA with respect to several syndroms are presented.
The results show the benefit of ESWA in the treatment of chronic soft-tissue disorders without severe side effects.
Some patients showed small subcutaneous hematomas and erosion of the skin when energies about 20 mJ were used.
Forty-seven of 84 of the patients obtained complete relief; 24 patients showed a marked reduction in their complaints.
In only 13 of 84 cases was the treatment unsuccessful.
Up to now there are no facts concerning the loosening rate of the cemented titanium stem (Trios).
The central guiding canula and the longitudinal drilled stem shall ensure a symmetric cement mantle.
Management of laryngeal carcinoma located at the anterior commissure remains controversial.
Local control rates with radiotherapy or surgery are not as good as those seen after treatment of midcord lesions.
The vertical partial laryngectomy with epiglottic reconstruction (VPLER) may be a more successful approach to such lesions.
The charts of all patients treated for larynx carcinoma between 1991 and 1996 at the authors' institutions were reviewed to identify those patients treated with VPLER as described by Sedlacek in 1965, Kambic in 1976 and Tucker in 1979.
Indications for performing surgery and outcome data of patients were collected and analyzed according to the indications for surgery, surgical technique, perioperative complications, oncological outcomes and functional results.
Twelve patients were identified that had been treated with VPLER.
Indications for surgery included five patients with local recurrences following endoscopic laser partial laryngectomies, four cases with previously untreated primary tumors at the anterior commissure (T2 N0-2 M0), two with local recurrences following radiotherapy, and one with recurrence following frontolateral partial laryngectomy.
There were no postoperative complications except for one laryngocutaneous fistula that required secondary repair.
All patients were able to swallow at the tenth postoperative day.
All had their tracheostomies closed after completion of wound healing, (a mean of 17 days after surgery).
Phonatory results were usually poor.
Two local recurrences occurred during the follow-up period.
However, both patients were salvaged with total laryngectomies and have since been free from disease.
All other patients are alive and well.
Our findings show that VPLER is an effective surgical approach for carcinoma at the anterior commissure of the larynx that cannot be adequately managed with transoral laser surgery or simple frontolateral partial laryngectomy.
This study demonstrates that the procedure can be successfully applied to the treatment of local recurrences following initial raditherapy or surgery.
No major complications occurred in our study.
Traditionally, intra-vitam diagnosis of fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) of brain supplying arteries is a domain of conventional selective angiography.
We are aware of only two publications reporting of ultrasound displayed intimal and medial variants of carotid artery FMD, in one case each.
We present a patient in whom color-coded duplex-sonography revealed a web-like carotid artery bulb stenosis meeting the specific criteria of a subtype of intimal FMD.
The relationship between depression and the outcome of low back surgery was investigated.
Data analysis was based on two assumptions: (1) Presurgical assessments of depression are correlated with the outcome of surgery, and, therefore, depression can be interpreted as a risk factor for surgical failure.
(2) Postsurgical assessments of depression are correlated with the outcome of surgery, and therefore, depression can be interpreted as a response to treatment failure.
The sample was made up of 78 patients who had undergone lumbar nucleotomy and 132 patients with lumbar spondylodesis.
Treatment outcome was evaluated 6 months after surgery in the nucleotomy group and 9 months after surgery in the spondylodesis group.
Depression was assessed with the Beck Depression Inventory (BDI).
Measures of treatment outcome were an objective rating system for the surgical result, functional impairment, return to work, subjective estimations of the patient, and pain intensity.
Presurgical depression scores showed no significant relationship with surgical outcome in nucleotomy patients.
In spondylodesis patients, however, there was a significant negative correlation with the patients' subjective outcome ratings.
Postsurgical depression scores, on the other hand, were significantly related to almost all of the outcome variables in both treatment groups.
Patients with clinically relevant postsurgical depression scores were significantly more likely not to benefit sufficiently from surgery than those with clinically not relevant depression scores.
Our findings favour assumption 2 over assumption.
In the light of our findings, depressiveness is interpreted as a response to a non-beneficial outcome of surgery.
The need for an interdisciplinary approach combining psychological counseling or treatment and physical therapy for those patients who do not benefit from surgery is discussed.
Using electron-beam computed tomography (EBCT) with short exposure times of 100 or 50 ms and the capability of acquiring up to 2 x 17 images/s it is possible to study most of the important morphological and functional determinants of the heart.
Various examples of studies in acute and chronic cardiac diseases are shown to demonstrate the use of EBCT to determine quantitatively left ventricular volumes (ml), myocardial mass (g), wall thickness changes over the cardiac cycle (mm/s), myocardial perfusion (ml/100 g/min) and the extent of coronary calcification (calcium score) and qualitatively the state of the proximal 4-6 cm of the subepicardial coronary arteries.
The knowledge of these determinants seems very useful in excluding cardiac dysfunction, in the early recognition of cardiac disease and in the evaluation of the haemodynamic severity of coronary artery stenotic lesions.
Further interdisciplinary studies are necessary to assess the clinical validity of these cardiac determinants, especially myocardial perfusion, using this advanced CT technology.
Fractures and dislocations of the elbow are some of the most common injuries in childhood and adolescence.
The majority occur in sport and play activities, e. g., a fall from gymnastics apparatus or a bike, or from popular sports items, such as skateboards or in-line skates.
The injuries can be divided into pure dislocations of the joint and fractures of the distal humerus, proximal radius and ulna, or combinations of both.
In addition, extra- and intraarticular fracture types are defined, with the latter as partial or complete joint lesions.
Dislocations of the elbow joint or the radial head can occur as single injuries or in combination with a fracture.
Supracondylar fractures and avulsion fractures of the medial epicondyle are the most frequent extraarticular lesions of the distal humerus.
Fractures of the lateral condyle prevail is incomplete intraarticular lesions.
In the forearm, radial head and neck fractures are predominant while typical and atypical Monteggia injuries have a special status.
The complex joint construction and the age-dependent appearance of the epiphyseal ossification centers sometimes make a correct radiological diagnosis difficult.
The trauma history and an exact, clinical examination help to verify the injury, as do comparative X-ray studies of the uninjured side when necessary (but not routinely).
Unlike other anatomical areas, most elbow injuries - even in the growing skeleton - are treated operatively.
Hereby, the growth plates have to be respected using minimal amounts of small implants.
Additional immobilization in a cast for 2 - 4 weeks is necessary in most cases but does not lead to a functional deficit - in contrast to adults.
The implants should be removed as early as possible.
Despite all therapeutic efforts, a significant number of late sequelae, such as malunions and functional impairment, can be seen.
The rate of long-term complications increases in cases of untreated displacement of fragments or joint instability.
Corrective measures are performed only in selected cases and after the growth plates are closed.
Our own treatment regime is demonstrated using exemplary clinical cases of the different injuries and the results of a long-term follow-up study on sports injuries of the elbow in children.
Errors in diagnosis and therapy, as well as possible complications, are pointed out.
2-adrenergic agonists, mimicking the action of the inhibitory transmitter norepinephrine, cause antinociception due to postsynaptic inhibition of spinothalamic projection neurons, presynaptic inhibition at the central nervous system termination of primary sensory nerves, presynaptic inhibition of brainstem noradrenergic neurons and a generalized decrease in central nervous system sympathetic efferent activity.
There is a mutual potentiation of antinociceptive effects of clonidine and morphine.
Clonidine is used in chronic pain states for treatment of neuropathic, neuralgic and deafferentiating pain.
Based on a meta-analysis of the studies published in the years 1996-1996, the therapeutic efficacy of systematically administered clonidine was evaluated in chronic pain states.
Out of 403 screened published studies, only 9 fulfilled the selection criteria.
Besides three case reports with successful clonidine treatment, four placebo-controlled studies could be analyzed treating the following chronic pain states: chest pain despite normal coronary angiograms; painful diabetic neuropathy; postherpetic neuralgia; hyperalgia in patients with sympathetically maintained pain and chronic low back pain.
Although three studies demonstrated statistically significant improvement in pain scores, the improvement in pain relief in these cases was slight.
Long-term treatment was successful in a few responders over a period of 17 months.
Hyperalgesia caused by sympathetically maintained pain was relieved by topical (transdermal) application of clonidine.
Based on this evaluation a grade C recommendation is derived, which relates to responders.
Successful treatment is expected only in pain states with increased sympathetic nervous system activity.
Therefore, in chronic pain, treatment with systemic clonidine is of no significant value.
Study objective: To investigate whether automatic tube compensation (ATC) or conventional pressure support (PS) is suit- able to compensate for the work of breathing imposed by the breathing circuit without altering the breathing pattern.
DNA-based prenatal testing of the fetal genotype was performed in a family at risk for recurrence of recessive dystrophic epidermolysis bullosa (RDEB).
DNA from cultured fibroblasts and leukocytes from the peripheral blood of the previously affected offspring, DNA from parental leukocytes and DNA from fetal tissue obtained by chorionic villus biopsy was analysed by direct PCR amplification of known polymorphic regions within or flanking the type VII collagen gene, the canditate gene in RDEB.
One flanking marker (D3S2/MspI) as well as two intragenic polymorphisms (C7/MspI, C7/Eco0109I) in exons 30 and 84 were informative in this family.
Thus, based on the haplotype analysis and the lack of evidence for locus heterogeneity in RDEB, a phenotypically healthy child was predicted.
This prediction was confirmed by the birth of a healthy female infant.
The study reports successful determination of the fetal genotype by PCR-based prenatal diagnosis in a family at risk for recurrence of severe RDEB.
Endothelins are peptides with powerful vasoconstrictor and mitogenic properties.
It has become evident that endothelins are involved in many regulatory mechanisms of the circulation role both in short and in long term.
However, in many cases it remains unclear whether the alteration of the endothelin metabolism is a primary pathology or a secondary phenomenon.
The synthesis of endothelin receptor antagonists and animal models with altered endothelin metabolism have opened a new era of endothelin research that will allow insight into the mechanisms of endothelin-action and eventually might lead to new therapeutic concepts.
This review discusses the evidence both in favor and against pathogenic effects of endothelins in cardiovascular disease.
The combination of fast MR sequences and rapid i. v. injection of paramagnetic contrast media provides information on cerebral perfusion.
MR-perfusion imaging primarily depicts the relative cerebral blood volume.
The aim of this study was to test whether MR-perfusion imaging with a clinical MR scanner using a standard 2D-FLASH sequence provides clinically relevant information on patients with cerebrovascular diseases and brain tumors.
Brain infarctions, lesions in cerebral microangiopathy and occlusions of the carotid artery with very poor collateralization showed definite differences in perfusion imaging compared with normal controls.
However, our results show that acceleration of the imaging sequence and optimization of the contrast bolus and data processing are prerequisites for the clinical use of this method, which in principle may provide information on the absolute cerebral blood volume and even blood flow.
Lumbar Microdiscectomy requires special instruments and provides a good view with a narrow approach.
The microscope is the best surgical aid.
Alternatives are a retractorintigrated light or headlamp.
A specific complication of lumbar microdiscectomy - the wrong level - can be minimized by an exact preoperative planning.
Other complications like dural lesions and exessive bleeding are less frequent with the microscope because of the better view.
The most severe complications that can occur with any lumbar disc operation, major vessel or visceral injury, can be avoided by lusing the new rongeur with a depth guard.
From January 1987 to March 1994 three hospitals in the city of Magdeburg treated a total of 103 subcutaneous Achilles tendon ruptures operatively.
We created a special score to compare the outcome of the different operation techniques used.
Important aspects of the follow-up examination were isokinetic measuring of power and staying power by means of a KIN-TREX dynamic measuring device and the clinical check-up in comparison with the histological results and the patients' history.
Degeneration could only be proved histologically in 38,8 % of the cases.
The average score of all OP methods applied was 767 of possible 1000 points.
The adaptation suture (781 points), Silfverskiold's technique (772 points) and the fibrin adhesive technique (754 points) showed approximately the same results.
The theory that all of the ruptures have a histological degeneration background seems to be wrong.
Isokinetic measuring can be very helpful in preparing a postoperative regimen to find the optimum load.
To determine wether a somatic dysfunction of head joints depends from segmental muscle strain, we investigated 89 patients before, during and after general anesthesia.
We examined the disturbed joint motion as exclusive criterion for a somatic dysfunction, because through an anesthesia with endotracheal intubation including complete neuromuscular blockade segmental influences on the inspected joint were eleminated.
For complete muscle relaxation as required for orotracheal intubation a non depolarizising muscle relaxant was used.
Somatic dysfunctions were found most frequent for side-inclination and retroflexion in segment O/C1.
Both before as well as during complete neuromuscular blockade could be found in the majority of examinations (89,1 %) similar restraints of joint motions.
To 10,9 % were found, that somatic dysfunctions established before the muscle relaxant was applicated, were no more demonstrable under complete blockade of neuromuscular transmission.
Different theoretical models are presented for the interpretation of our results.
We assume, that the disturbance of one component of the metamer organized segment is the basic phänomenon of somatic dysfunction.
This disturbance break through the spinal segmental inhibition and expand into the segment.
Subsequently we discuss to replace the term "somatic dysfunction" through "segmental dysfunction" and to define it as increasing of nozizeptive afference in the segment over a determined period of time with breakthrough of the spinal segmental inhibition threshold.
Postoperative intestinal atonia is a complication which is likely to occur in patients predisposed for constipation and in patients after intra-abdominal operations.
The postoperative delay of bowel movement, however, is often also related to the type of anaesthesia being used.
In order to evaluate the magnitude of an anaesthetic-induced postoperative delay of bowel movement, two types of intravenous-based anaesthesia using fentanyl/midazolam (1 mg/25 mg; dosage 0.1 ml/kg/h), and ketamine/midazolam (250 mg/25 mg; dosage 0.1 ml/kg/h) respectively were compared with a volatile anaesthetic technique (enflurane; mean concentration 1.5 vol%).
In three groups of patients (each n=15) undergoing elective surgery of the lower extremities, induction of anaesthesia was accomplished with methohexital (1 - 1.5 mg) followed by succinylcholine (1.5 mg/kg) to facilitate intubation.
For the maintenance of muscle relaxation vecuronium bromide was used.
All patients were given droperidol to prevent postoperative emesis, and they were artifically ventilated with N2O/O2 (60: 40) to normal end-expiratory CO2 concentrations.
No anticholinergic agents were used at the end of operation since they are known to interfere with bowel motility.
In order to determine gastro-intestinal motility, the H2 exhalation test was used.
For this purpose 40 g lactulose in 100 ml of water was given to all patients via a gastral tube shortly before extubation.
Lactulose is broken down by bacteria once it enters the colon, and H2 is released, taken up by the vascular system and exhaled.
Postoperatively, patients were asked to exhale into a 20-ml syringe every 10 min.
The content was analysed for hydrogen (ppm), using an electrochemical sensor (GMI exhaled hydrogen monitor).
From the time of lactulose instillation to a threefold increase in endexpiratory hydrogen concentration (compared to the preoperative value), gastro-coecal transit time was computed.
All three groups of patients were comparable in age, height and body weight.
Also, the duration of operation was comparable in all three groups.
Mean gastro-coecal transit time was 204 ( +/- 19.6 SD) min following enflurane, 302 ( +/- 32.8 SD) min following fentanyl/-midazolam and 210 ( +/- 28.8 SD) min following ketamine/midazolam anaesthesia.
The gastro-intestinal inhibition after the opioid-based anaesthetic technique was significantly prolonged (p<0.001, Kruskal-Wallis test).
There was no significance between patients after ketamine-based anaesthesia and those who had the volatile anaesthetic.
When using intravenous anaesthesia with an opioid, gastro-intestinal inhibition, especially in patients prone to have constipation, is likely to develop postoperatively.
In classical neuroleptanaesthesia and in analgosedation in the ICU, the simultaneous use of the butyrophenone droperidol seems to counteract the inhibition of opioid-related gastrointestinal motility.
In cases of opioid-related gastrointestinal atonia a gastrokinetic compound may be necessary to overcome this effect on intestinal motility.
In a prospective study 20 patients were monitored with serial sonograms and radiographs during distraction osteogenesis at the lower limb.
All sonograms were obtained in four planes using a 7.5 MHz transducer.
The distraction gap was seen as a sonolucent area in all patients after corticotomy.
At an average of 20.7 (14-28) days after the beginning of the distraction, echogenic foci occurred and showed increasing longitudinal alignment with further distraction.
Radiographical signs of beginning mineralization were seen an average of 48.3 days after the start of the distraction.
Exact measurement of the distraction gap was possible in all patients during lengthening.
Bone healing complications and hematoma could be detected by ultrasound.
A rapid increase of bone mineralization was seen after the distraction was stopped.
With increasing cortication of the regenerate bone, sonograms showed a hyper-reflecting solid line so that further mineralization and the time of removal of the fixator could not be assessed by ultrasound.
Ultrasound is more sensitive than radiography in identifying new bone formation during distraction, measuring the length of the distraction gap, and detecting early bone-healing complications and can therefore reduce the need for radiographs.
The interval between the onset of symptoms in patients with head and neck cancers and the introduction of treatment was evaluated.
During a 1-year period, patients were interviewed to determine the duration of any delays from the onset of complaints until the first visit to a doctor.
Also asked was how long it took to be referred to an ENT specialist and actual referral to our department.
We then determined the interval from diagnosis to the introduction of therapy.
It was found that the delay of patients who went directly to an otorhinolaryngologist was shorter (median, 8 weeks) than that of patients who first went to their family doctors (median, 13 weeks) (P<0.02).
The latter then took an additional 4 weeks before sending patients to an otorhinolaryngologist.
Referral from the ENT specialist to our department took another 2 weeks, as well as our staging and pre-therapeutic management.
Our findings show that the patient himself is the critical factor in delaying diagnosis and therapy.
Tumor patients with greater professional qualification went to their doctors earlier (P<0.0001) or more often went directly to an ENT specialist (P<0.002).
Consultations of physicians without experience in otorhinolaryngology caused yet further delays.
The present study deals with long-term dimensional changes in cemented Müller-type total hip endoprostheses.
Creep and wear contribute to different extents to the dimensional changes in polyethylene.
The total amount of polyethylene wear is represented by the displacement of the femoral head into the socket.
Within the first postoperative years, the head shifts up to a relatively high rate of about 0.5 mm per year.
This rate diminishes after 5 years to an average of about 0.1 mm (ceramics) and 0.2 mm (metal) per year.
Values exceeding 0.2 mm per year for the shift of the femoral head are considered to be unfavourable with regard to a probable loosening of the prosthesis.
In this study we determined the orientation of the centre of the prosthetic head in relation to the wire marker of the polyethylene cup, comprising in all 369 total hip prostheses.
After an average of 77 months, 96 % of the prostheses with ceramic heads (n = 109) had a wear rate of less than 0.2 mm per year.
Using metal heads (Protasul-2 and Protasul-10) this rate could only be measured in 71 % (n = 109) of the prostheses (61.5 months).
The combination ceramics-polyethylene produces half of the total amount of wear produced by metal-polyethylene.
Younger patients should preferably be treated with a ceramic ballhead.
The so-called amyopathic dermatomyositis is a rare variant of dermatomyositis which has attracted increasing interest during the last years.
One finds the classical signs of dermatomyositis such as periorbital edema and erythema, erythematous macular and papular lesions localized at bony prominences (so-called Gottron's papules), generalized pruritus, photosensitivity, and a cutaneous histopathologic picture compatible with skin lesions of dermatomyositis.
Crucial for the diagnosis is the exclusion of myositis by clinical examination, EMG and histology.
Furthermore, longterm supervision of patients is advisable in order not to miss the appearance of early signs of myositis.
The longest reported follow-up of amyopathic dermatomyositis patient is 4 years; however, it cannot be excluded that these cases will eventually culminate in classical dermatomyositis.
In this paper we describe two cases and discuss the differential diagnosis and therapy; also, the term "Premyopathic dermatomyositis" is proposed, to indicate that the full picture is to be expected in most cases.
The primary renal angiosarcoma is a rarely seen highly malignant tumor.
Making a diagnosis based on histology may prove difficult.
Because of hematogenous formation of metastases and bad prognosis in most cases we recommend that the surgical intervention be followed by the well tolerated systemic chemotherapy with Doxorubicin and Ifosfamid.
This study compares the results of the outpatient-based program of the Cochlear Implant Center Ruhr with inpatient-based rehabilitation, which is almost exclusively performed in Germany.
The Department of Otorhinolaryngology at the University of Essen in Germany provided 52 patients with either 22- or 24-channel Nucleus cochlear implants from March 1996 to July 1999.
Almost all patients (n=49) were rehabilitated on an outpatient basis, which is the standard in many cochlear implant centers outside Germany.
Syringe drivers are used in anaesthetics, intensive care and emergency medicine to deliver small volumes of highly potent drugs with continuous, constant and reproducible flow.
For early recognition of interruptions of the drug delivery caused by occlusion of the infusion system, an alarm is triggered as soon as the system pressure exceeds a certain limit.
The sensitivity of this alarm depends on the flow rate, type-specific cut-off pressure and the elastic parameters of the infusion system.
The sudden release of pressure built up in the system after occlusion occurred can cause delivery of an uncontrolled drug bolus and hence an additional hazard.
Methods: Six syringe drivers that are widely used in clinical practice were tested for alarm delay and bolus delivery in the event of an occlusion in the system.
First, the alarm pressures at flow rates of 10, 50 and 100 ml/h were measured.
Then the alarm delay time and bolus volumes post-occlusion were assessed, using a basic infusion system (syringe+single infusion set).
Finally, several alterations to the system like extension, tap battery with germ filters or branching were made and their impact on alarm delay and bolus volume measured.
Results: Because of the great differences in alarm pressures between the devices tested, there were marked differences in the alarm delay at same flow rates.
Predictably, there was an indirect proportional link between alarm delay and flow rate.
Using the basic infusion system, alarm delays between 23 s and 143 min were measured.
In two of the tested syringe drivers, a pressure-release mechanism is activated with the pressure alarm, which prevented bolus application.
In the other devices, release of the pressure in the occluded system caused boli of 0.5-7 ml.
Variations in the actual syringe volume and insertion of a second connection tube had no impact on alarm delay and bolus volume.
Tap batteries, parallel running syringe drivers or trapped air in the system, however, caused marked increase in both alarm delay (107%) and bolus volume (+147%).
Discussion: Unidentified occlusions of the system cause grave malfunctioning of syringe drivers.
While applying highly potent drugs, the discontinuation of drug delivery with subsequent bolus application can cause vital danger to the patient.
As a result of the significant time delays in the pressure alarms, the devices tested do not provide sufficient protection against unrecognized system occlusion.
Syringe drivers with adjustable alarm pressure can be set close to the actual infusion pressure.
A further important point is that one should aim at a reduction in the elastic properties of the infusion set because of the great impact on alarm delay and bolus volume.
Because the overall results of conservative treatment for distal radial fractures have been unsatisfactory, it is rarely used.
However, minimally invasive methods such as stabilization by external fixation and percutaneous K-wire pinning are being increasingly used.
A justified indication for the use of K-wire pinning is that it provides an opportunity to achieve good and very good short- and long-term anatomic and functional results.
Short-term supplementary immobilization with a minimized plaster cast or protective external fixation is generally considered to be useful.
Reports on plaster-free functional treatment after K-wire pinning have been published.
The indications therefore need to be further specified.
Follow-up studies and an analysis of our patients show a strong increase in K-wire stabilization and good-to-very good results in 75% of the cases.
Involvment of the genitouronary tract by lymphoproliferative disorders is rare.
Rapid proliferating Burkitt's lymphomas could mimic acute diseases.
Due to the extreme chemosensitivity, the lymphoma is cureable and surgery should be done only for histology.
Initial surgery should be restricted to acute abdominal complications or complete removal of localised resectable disease.
In any case a multiagent chemotherapy is necessary.
Wet autoclaving is a simple, reliable and time-effective method for antigen retrieval in routinely processed archival material.
Both routine diagnostic (e. g., oestrogen and progesterone receptors, cytoskeletal proteins) and research antibodies (e. g. various p53 antibodies, mdm-2, bcl-2, MIB-1) are reported to demonstrate its application.
Wet autoclaving may allow successful application of antibodies in paraffin-embedded tissues designed for use on frozen sections.
The technique has the poten-tial to reliably handle up to 200 sections at a time, without evidence of any significant damage to the sections or nuclear morphology.
Classical stable plate osteosynthesis with its anatomical repositioning, absolute stability between fragments and medial support should only be applied to joint fractures and spongy bone.
In cortical bone, the anatomical reposition connected with the plate promotes bone necrosis along the fracture and prevents callus formation.
Direct cortical synthesis, a method also known as "primary bone healing", serves the bone's revascularisation and is not necessarily aimed at healing.
Thus, this may also be termed "necrosis healing".
Along the shaft of long bones, elastic plate osteosynthesis, a biological method, is safer than and superior to the rigid technique.
This even applies to short oblique and transverse fractures insofar as nailing does not appear feasible.
Elasticity is achieved by leaving a flexible stretch of at least 2 - 4 holes, i.e.
as long as possible, without screws over the fracture and by employing a titanium plate.
Thus, there is no punctate fatigue leading to plate breakage.
The fitting of third fragments is deliberately left out.
The same applies to all kinds of compression with lag screws, tension devices or DC-gliding holes - and this with the intention of allowing micromovements in the fracture's fissure.
Periost and muscle are not removed and the fracture is not examined.
Healing occurs spontaneously via a fixating callus forming within the first 3 - 6 weeks out of the periost-soft tissue combination.
Histomorphological investigation dates the first woven- bone bridges between the fragments to 3 weeks subsequent to the accident.
In Göttingen University trauma centre, 87 fractures have been attended to over 2 years using this technique.
Despite considerable soft-tissue damage, no delayed bone healing, pseudoarthrosis or bone infection has been observed.
The risks of elastic plate osteosynthesis lie in unbiological and exaggerated reposition methods, too short a flexible stretch, and insufficient anchorage of the screws.
Diagnosis of a thrombosis in the peripheral veins can now be made with almost 100% certainty using either phlebography or duplex sonography.
A correct diagnosis depends on the expertise of the examiner.
Both methods are available throughout Germany.
Although both are equally suitable for primary diagnostic investigations, duplex sonography has assumed an important role due to the fact that it is not invasive.
Phlebography is vital if there are specific issues that need to be clarified.
This applies if invasive treatment methods are being considered, if an expert opinion is required or if scientific issues need to be determined.
Discrepancy between clinical findings and the results of duplex sonography also constitutes an important indication for phlebography.
In many institutions, both methods are used in a "golden partnership" in cases in which it is important to obtain comprehensive records.
For frequent ventricular ectopic beats, currently, reassurance and pharmacological therapy are the mainstays of treatment.
This study assesses the useful role of catheter ablation in eliminating frequent monomorphic ventricular ectopic beats in severely symptomatic patients.
Catheter ablation was performed in 65 patients with frequent drug refractory ventricular ectopic beats.
The site of origin of ventricular ectopic activity was accurately mapped by using pace mapping, earliest endocardial activation time, and unipolar mapping.
In 5 patients a new non-contact mapping was additionally performed.
The ectopic focus was located in the right ventricular outflow tract in 37 and in the left ventricle in 28 patients.
Ventricular ectopic beats were successfully eliminated by catheter ablation in 49/65 patients (75%).
During a mean follow up of 13 +/- 11 months, 9 of 49 successful ablated patients (18%) had a recurrence.
Radiofrequency catheter ablation can be successfully used to eliminate ventricular ectopic activity.
It may, therefore, be a reasonable alternative for the treatment of severely symptomatic, drug resistant monomorphic ventricular ectopic activity.
Injuries of the forefoot are a challenge for orthopaedic surgeons.
After healing of bone and soft tissue damage, posttraumatic metatarsalgia can persist.
The paper presents a therapy algorithm with newly designed insoles, which consist of the common orthopaedic adaptions like a rocker bottom and a stiffening of the sole.
The therapy is shown on two cases.
With these orthotics adequate is possible and pain relief realistic.
Background: Myopic PRK up to 6 D is an approved and safe procedure.
The efficacy and safety of combined treatment of myopia and astigmatism in compound myopic astigmatism (PARK) have not yet been demonstrated.
Nitric oxide (NO) can play an important role in the regulation of vascular tone and neurotransmission, as well as in non-specific immunoreactions and inflammation in a variety of tissues.
Increased quantities of nitric oxide in respired air can be measured during inflammatory processes.
However, the exact role and precise sources of NO under physiological and pathophysiological conditions within the airways remain to be defined.
We report on a 55-year old patient who presented with a four month history of intermittent left thoracic painful attacks which radiated in the left arm.
Both normal 12 lead electrocardiogram and treadmill stress tests showed no significant ST changes.
A thallium-201 scintigraphy afterwards disclosed a non-transmural septal ischemia.
The consecutively performed diagnostic catheterization revealed a severe, almost pouch-like proximal aneurysm of the right coronary artery with a maximal diameter of 15-20 mm as well as an aneurysmatic modified left coronary artery and an impaired left ventricular function (EF 49%).
In the absence of coronary artery stenosis, the patient was treated conservatively with an ACE inhibitor (lisinoprile 20 mg/day) under accompanying effective anticoagulant therapy with coumadin.
With this strategy the patient has been asymptomtic during the eight month follow-up period.
We investigated in 17 children (mean 7.1 years) the continuous administration of tramadol following augmentation cystoplasty or exstrophy reconstruction.
Mean duration of the tramadol administration on the pediatric ward was 3.8  +/-  1.1 days (initial dosage 0.25 mg/kg/per hour, dose adjustment by the nursing staff).
Mean tramadol consumption was 0.21 mg/kg/h on day 1 and was reduced to 0.08 mg/kg/per hour on day 4.
Median pain score (assessed with ten-step scales) was 5 before treatment and between 2.5 (day 1) and 0.5 (day 5) during therapy.
Lowest oxygen saturations (mean) ranged from 93.8 % to 95.2 %.
Three patients (17.6 %) suffered from nausea/vomiting on 3 of 64 treatment days (4.7 %).
Pruritus and extreme sedation did not occur.
The continuous administration of tramadol is a simple and safe procedure following major urological surgery in children.
Over the past 5-7 years, there has been a renewed research interest into the mechanism as well as the development of newer "emerging" treatment modalities for atrial fibrillation.
One of these novel therapies is the implantable atrial defibrillator.
In this article we will review the basic and clinical research which has been used in the development of electrode systems and shock waveforms utilized by commercially-available implantable atrial cardioversion devices.
In 26 patients with abscesses in the maxillofacial area, the electrolyte concentrations, pH and osmotic and hydrostatic pressures of the pus fluid were measured and calculated.
The main cations identified were sodium (134  +/-  38 mmol/l) and potassium  (37  +/-  16 mmol/l) and as anions chloride (183  +/-  46 mmol/l) and bicarbonate (10  +/-  4 mmol/l).
The pH value of the pus liquid was 6.164  +/-  0.233.
The calculated mean osmotic pressure of the pus liquid was 7910  +/-  1455 mm Hg, whereas the measured physical pressure inside the abscess was 49  +/-  13 mm Hg.
Both pressure types show time-dependent pressure curves.
With time, the real pressure inside the abscess cavity increases, whereas the osmotic pressure decreases.
There was no relationship between the two pressure types and the different species of microorganisms responsible for the inflammation.
The results of the study reveal that abscesses can be regarded as osmotically active systems, and the mechanism by which the abscess is formed might be as follows.
After penetration of virulent microorganisms into the tissue space, the area of acute inflammation is walled off by the collection of inflammatory cells.
Destruction of tissue by products of the polymorphonuclear leucozytes takes place and results in liquefactive necrosis and a hypertonic abscess cavity.
The inwards-directed flow of tissue fluids into the cavity via the abscess membrane causes volume expansion and generates pressure, two facts that can explain the swelling dynamics and typical symptoms of abscesses in the maxillofacial area.
Internal mammary artery (IMA) bypass grafts have a satisfactorily long lasting blood supply to the myocardium.
Their initial flow capacity can be insufficient with subsequent regional myocardial ischemia.
This study represents a feasable surgical method to evaluate the effectiveness of the IMA graft function by temperature measurement of the heart during warm reperfusion after hypothermic cardioplegia.
Twenty-five patients with multi-vessel coronary artery disease underwent coronary artery bypass grafting using the IMA as an arterial graft to the left anterior descending coronary artery and saphenous vein grafts to the remaining coronary arteries.
Distal anastomoses were installed during cold intermittent blood-cardioplegic  arrest.
After unclamping the aorta and IMA graft, the temperatures in cardiac front and rear sides were measured during the first five minutes of warm reperfusion.
A sufficient IMA graft function was expressed by a typical rise of temperature: The cardiac front and rear sides showed a parabolic and exponential course, respectively.
The rewarming speed expressed as the first derivative of temperature over time led to a sharp and early peak for the front side, and a smaller and delayed peak for the rear side.
An insufficient IMA graft function could be recognized by atypical temperature courses.
Fabry's disease (Angiokeratoma corporis diffusum) is a rare X-chromosome linked recessive disorder belonging to the group of sphingolipoidoses.
The basic defect involves the gene encoding alpha-galactosidase.
Because this enzyme is responsible for decomposition of glycosphingolipids, its deficiency results in their accumulation in endothelial and smooth muscle cells.
With time, generalized angiokeratomas, paresthesias, renal and cardiac insufficiency and cerebrovascular complications develop.
We report a patient who in addition to the well-described findings also showed unique nail fold capillary changes not described so far.
Analysis of serum concentration of alpha-galactosidase identified three female heterozygous carriers in the patient's family.
Benign, proliferative changes of the Brunner's gland are very rare and account for about 10 % of duodenal bulb neoplasias.
The authors present a case of Brunner's gland adenoma of unusual dimensions (12 x 5 x 2.5 cm).
The patient presented with vague epigastric discomfort as isolated symptoms.
In this case we performed surgical treatment, including a duodenotomy and polypectomy.
Because they are localized in the submucosa small, superficial endoscopic biopsies may fail to confirm the diagnosis.
Malignancy seems to occur only very rarely, with only 14 cases reported in the literature.
As the majority of Brunner's adenomas are quite small, endoscopic polypectomy will confirm the diagnosis and cure the condition in most cases.
Large symptomatic adenomas may require surgical resection.
Objective: How does adjuvant training of strength and endurance influence the muscular, cardial, respiratory, immunological systems, and the quality of life during intrahepatical chemotherapy in a veteran athlete with liver metastasis after resection of a carcinoma of the rectum.
Patient and method: A 58-year-old athlete with metastatic carcinoma of the rectum (pT3, N0, M-liver, G2) underwent regional chemotherapy (folinic acid, 5-fluorouracil) via an intrahepatic port system.
Six cycles with 5 days each were applied.
During the intervals between cycles (14 days), beginning in the 6th postoperative week, a strength and endurance training (duration 13 weeks) was carried out twice weekly with an intensity of 40-60 % of the maximum postoperative individual power and endurance (evaluated with weight and treadmill exercise tests and measurement of lactate).
Before and after chemotherapy, an echocardiogram, resting and exercise electrocardiogram, lung function, natural killer cells and the gastrointestinal quality of life index (GLQI) was evaluated.
After chemotherapy was finished, the effects of training were assumed.
Results: Strength increased between 0 % and 144 %.
Endurance improvement was measured on the last comparable submaximal intensity step, expressed by reduction of heart rate and lactate concentration by 10 and 21.5 %, respectively, improvement of lung function regarding FEV 1 and FCV by 12.9 and 11.3 %, respectively, and VC IN 11.4 %.
The relative count of natural killer cells increased by 27.2 %, and the GLQI improved from 109 points (pathologic) to 129 points (normal).
Conclusion: There were positive effects on muscular and cardial mechanisms of adaptation and on illness-related quality of life.
Postoperative sports activity during regional chemotherapy is possible.
Introduction: We report our experience with laparoscopic nephrectomy in comparison to open nephrectomy in geriatric patients.
The laparoscopic technique is presented and the results are discussed with respect to the data from the current literature.
Material and Methods: Since 1993, a total of 249 patient have undergone a nephrectomy for benign renal disease.
In 131 patients a laparoscopic nephrectomy (in most cases via a transperitoneal approach) was performed and in 118 patients an open nephrectomy via a flank incision.
Clinical parameters were compared between both groups as well as with respect to different age groups.
Results: There were no differences in terms of operative results (operative time, pre- and postoperative hemoglobin) between the laparoscopy group and open nephrectomy group as well as among the different age groups.
Patients in the laparoscopy group demonstrated significant advantages with respect to blood loss, transfusion rate, analgesic consumption, hospital stay, and convalescence.
These advantages were not related to patient age.
The complication rate was comparable for both groups; however, both groups showed an elevation of the complication rate in the age groups 75 to 84 years.
The mortality rate within the first 30 days after nephrectomy was 1.7% in the open nephrectomy group.
Conclusions: The laparoscopic nephrectomy offers comparable operative results (with less blood loss and a lower transfusion rate) when compared to open nephrectomy.
In terms of postoperative parameters, patients in the laparoscopy group have significant advantages.
Especially geriatric patients benefit from these advantages and, therefore, the laparoscopic approach should be the preferred technique for a nephrectomy in these patients.
The vast majority of adder bites among children in Germany is caused by the common viper (vipera berus).
The venom that is applicated by the viper contains several enzymes, some of them with hemorrhagic and neurotoxic activity.
Adder bites among children may be without any symtoms but as well may cause severe intoxication.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the results after open Bankart repair using suture anchors in patients with recurrent posttraumatic anterior shoulder instability.
Some 32 patients were prospectively observed for a mean of 40 months (24-60) after stabilization.
The mean age at the time of operation was 29.7 years.
All patients were postoperatively immobilized in a sling for 3 weeks.
According to the criteria of Rowe, 29 patients (90.6 %) had good or excellent results.
Two patients (6.3 %) developed recurrent instability 6-24 months postoperatively; 93.7 % were not or only slights limited in sports activities.
Bankart repair is an excellent treatment for recurrent posttraumatic anterior shoulder instability.
The use of suture anchors is an appropriate way of reattaching the capsuloligamentous complex to the glenoid to restore stability to an unstable joint.
Purpose: Assessment of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) patency with computed tomography methods has been demonstrated as an alternative to coronary angiography.
The evaluation of the bypass anastomoses is still of limited success.
Prospective ECG triggering of conventional CT scanners al- lows heart phase-triggered single-slice acquisition in the sub-second range.
The goal of this study was to evaluate whether the use of ECG triggering can optimize the evaluation of proximal CABG anastomoses.
Multiple personality is known since last century und has been described by Breuer and Freud as well as by Kraepelin.
In the latest and nearly exclusively angloamerican literature multiple personality disorder is included in the dissociated reactions in borderline personality disorder.
The concept of comorbidity is criticized.
Case studies illustrate indications for diagnosing MPD.
The authors point out, that sufficient diagnostic methods and criteria are still not existing.
But their development has its limits: In most cases a history of sexual abuse can be detected and therefore an intensive diagnostic "investigation" can be on a psychodynamic level a repetition of traumatic abuse.
Many new methods have been introduced in reproductive medicine in recent years, and some have already found their way into clinical routine.
Cryopreservation of oocytes and in vitro maturation and culture of primordial follicles do not play a significant role in patient treatment.
However, the short-term culture of oocytes before metaphase II does seem relevant.
Blastocyst culture has mostly replaced coculture techniques and, given appropriate laws, provides adequate possibility of selecting embryos with high developmental and implantation potential.
An exact pronuclear diagnosis also has a high ability to predict the probability of implantation.
Viewing the latest data, assisted hatching seems to bring no improvements for most patients.
Preimplantation diagnosis is being discussed in Germany due to new statements from ethical committees.
Cytoplasma transfer, nuclear transfer, or the transplantation of spermatogenic cells into donors are currently only experimental.
The importance of spiral-CT is clinically accepted for diagnosing spreading disease and for making a decision about the therapy strategy for head and neck tumors.
Its importance for follow-up after radiotherapy was examined in 26 patients with irradiated laryngeal tumors.
Using spiral-CT multiple signs of alterations (n = 98) can be diagnosed, which are not only important for tumour relapse, but also for assessment.
Spiral-CT offers the possibility of achieviny various additional information about the larynx that cannot be obtained with laryngoscopy.
In follow-up examinations after radiation, laryngoscopy and spiral-CT are recommended as an integrated neck examination using the breath-holding technique (separately reconstructed) and also as functional spiral-CT of the vocal cords in "I"-phonation.
In the years 1980-1992 surveys were undertaken to ascertain the occurrence of central nervous system infections in children in pediatric departments in the German provinces of Bavaria and Lower Saxony.
There was a very noticeable drop in viral meningitides over the survey years especially in mumps meningitis, i. e. from 199/205 in 1980 to 16/7 in 1992.
In both states about 80 % of the viral meningitides could not be clarified etiologically.
Whereas in Bavaria a steady increase in herpes simplex encephalitides and varizella zoster encephalitides was apparent (1/4 in 1980, 10/24 in 1992), the same development was not found in Lower Saxony.
Although the number of measles encephalitides dropped in both states during the period of the survey, up to 6 cases of the illness occurred annually.
Only in the case of herpes simplex encephalitis the rate of recovery shows a substantial improvement over the observation period, while for other forms the rate of partial recovery has remained approximately the same.
Purpose: To assess patient reliability and compliance, most perimeters check for false-positive and -negative answers.
In this study the results of catch trials were obtained with video campimetry with respect to age-related changes and differences for tests using increment and decrement stimuli.
During a 7-year period (between July 1987 and June 1994) 19 patients were treated for Chopart dislocation.
Seventeen patients were examined clinically 48 months following trauma.
We found 1 excellent, 6 good, 6 mediocre, and 4 poor results.
Only 4 patients were able to achieve their pre-accident level of work and no patients could return to sports at the same level.
In our patients, Chopart dislocation had a negative social consequence both at the work place and in recreational activities.
In long-term follow-up, the Chopart dislocation was the most debilitating injury even for polytrauma patients.
For incidents of malignant hyperthermia (MH) outside the hospital, a high number of unrecorded cases must be reckoned with because of an insufficient knowledge of emergency services and poor identification and documentation that make it impossible to classify acute situations under the diagnosis of malignant hyperthermia crisis.
As a result, there are no statistical data in this field, and only case reports with a broad spectrum of suspected trigger mechanisms have been published.
The case described in this report is a proved example of a non-anesthesia-related triggering of MH in a 21-year-old man who had had an anesthetic-induced MH manifestation in childhood, which was confirmed with an in vitro contracture test.
After visiting a restaurant, he became unconscious and convulsive after consuming a high level of alcohol (2.9permil).
The first cardiocirculatory arrest occurred directly before hospitalization.
After admission, the patient showed a full-blown MH episode whose subsequent fatality was unavoidable in spite of adapted and optimal therapy.
Suspected trigger mechanisms seem to be multifactoral (excessive alcohol consumption, over-heating, mental stress) as a forensic investigation did not point to any particular signs of typical trigger substances.
The case demonstrates again that an MH attack might be triggered under certain non-anaesthesia-related situations.
For patients with an MH disposition, additional information on their behavior outside the hospital is required.
Dipterous fly maggots of different species live worldwide as parasites in hoofed mammals.
In the host the larval development causes typical boils, i. e., abscesses including the larvae.
As a result of increasing tourist traffic, travelers can also bring back to Germany tropical types of myiasis.
Surgical treatment of diffuse peritonitis is applied very variably.
There is no question that source control is the most important treatment principle, but the role of additional treatment concepts such as continuous postoperative peritoneal lavage remains controversial.
In a prospective survey (1993-1996) we analyzed the need for additional treatment concepts in our patient material.
In 186 patients with diffuse peritonitis we applied the concept of source control and extensive (20-30 l) intraoperative lavage.
Additional treatment principles such as continuous postoperative peritoneal lavage (n = 17) or staged lavage (n = 5) were applied only "on demand", namely in 20 patients (11 %).
In 166 patients (89 %) source control of diffuse peritonitis was possible.
The mean severity of peritonitis (n = 186) was 28.5 (range 16-43) using the Mannheim Peritonitis Index.
The primary cause of peritonitis in our patients was perforation or leakage in the lower GI tract (52 %).
The hospital mortality rate was 12 % in the whole group, and the postoperative morbidity rate was 34 %.
We conclude that nowadays, using high-quality intensive care as well as modern antiinfective treatment, only a few patients (ca.
10 %) need additional therapy measures such as postoperative lavage.
Surgical source control in combination with intraoperative lavage is sufficient in most of the patients with diffuse peritonitis.
Native Tissue Harmonic Imaging is a new way of ultrasound image processing that addresses the difficult-to-image patient.
By using a Gaussian shaped transmit pulse it is possible to separate from the returning echo the harmonic component without overlapping with fundamental reflections.
The improved image quality leads to higher diagnostic confidence so that the use of further imaging modalitites is unnecessary.
Aim: The aim of this study was to validate the detection of calcified arteriosclerotic plaques with intravascular ultrasound (IVUS).
Method: 181 arteries were examined by 20/30 MHz IVUS.
The ultrasound cross-sections were compared to the corresponding radiologic (30 kV) and histologic cross-sections.
Results: Calcified lesions were imaged as bright echos with shadowing.
In 13 cases of 161 calcified lesions were too small to detect by IVUS.
In 5 ultrasonic sections the diagnosis "calcified lesion" could not be verified neither by radiology nor by histology.
The sensitivity was 91.6%, the specificity was 94.7% and the accuracy was 93.0%.
Conclusions: Because of the acoustic properties of calcium, calcified lesions can be detected accurately by IVUS.
IVUS can generate new insights into the effect of plaque composition on the response to catheter therapies.
Hillel Klein has called the holocaust "the dark core of the twentieth century".
It was the aim of weekly conferences, held in Israel in 1994 and 1996, to explore its repercussions on current behaviour.
The topic was "The past in the present".
The participants were Israelis and Germans, the staff international.
The method used was the application of the "group relations conference", specially devised for these conferences.
The leadership was in the hands of Eric J. Miller, director of the group relations program at the Tavistock Institute of Human Relations in London, where this group method originated and continues to be particularly cultivated still today.
It is especially suited when an unconscious conflict between subgroups exists that emerges on the surface in forms which lead to confusion and misunderstandings.
The task which had been put to the participants was as follows: to explore how feelings and fantasies influence relations within and between the two groups.
This was easy to remember but not always easy to adhere to.
There were moments when fantasy and reality got confused, accompanied by intense feelings.
In this paper my experience with a databank for cases with bone diseases is reported.
All cases which had been diagnosed in the newly formed Department of Bone Pathology of the University of Hamburg since 1970 were registered in uniform fashion.
Adapting the system to state-of-the-art network structures required a lot of personal and financial investment.
This could not be accomplished by university resources alone, but only in cooperation with other research funds.
Now 76 000 cases can be routinely accessed and scientifically analysed.
Background and purpose: In Germany, 750,000 children are born per year who should be screened for developmental visual defects in the age range 24-48 months.
However, the established pediatric screening program is not sufficient to prevent amblyopia.
The purpose of this study was to examine the cost-effectiveness of alternatives for amblyopia and microtropia screening.
The fluorescence diagnosis based on the aminolavulinic acid-stimulated porphyrin synthesis allows the detection of superficial tumors in a very early stage even when they are very small tumors.
A fluorescence diagnosis of tumors in the oral cavity can be simply performed by rinsing with a 0.4% ALA solution for 20 min.
This topical application avoids systemic side effects such as skin sensitization.
The red fluorescent areas are visible to the naked eye; only a blue light source for fluorescence excitation is necessary and a suitable red filter for observation.
In our study on 56 patients suffering from carcinoma of the oral cavity, 96% of the histologically confirmed carcinoma could be visualized via fluorescence.
In 3 patients additional tumors were detected via fluorescence that were not visible otherwise.
However, many patients show fluorescent areas with no correlation to the histological finding.
It was verified that bacteria from the oral cavity also produce PpIX after ALA incubation, which leads to false-positive findings.
Reduction of the false-positive findings was achieved by rinsing the oral cavity with hydrogen peroxide and by mechanical plaque reduction.
This improves the reliability of a fluorescence-guided biopsy.
However, suppression of the bacteria fluorescence is necessary for clinical use of this diagnostic method.
Autocapture is a newly developed automatic threshold tracking algorithm implemented in implantable pacemakers.
Based on the detection of the cardiac evoked response, autocapture continuously controls the effectiveness of stimulation.
Increases in threshold are immediately followed by an adaption of the pulse amplitude.
Automatic threshold tests periodically lower the amplitude in order to adapt to decreased thresholds.
Thus, changes in threshold can be monitored over a long period and utilized as a diagnostic tool.
This case report demonstrates the diagnosis and monitoring of a microdislodgement by means of autocapture.
The indication to treat symptomatic paroxysmal atrial fibrillation is discussed controversely.
Successful medical treatment may result in the reduction of symptoms by improving hemodynamics in a reduction of thromboembolic events.
However, several antiarrhythmic drugs are also known to increase the risk of proarrhythmic events.
Tissue engineering offers the possibility to fabricate living substitutes for tissues and organs by combining histogenic cells and biocompatible carrier materials.
Pluripotent mesenchymal stem cells are isolated and subcultured ex vivo and then their histogenic differentiation is induced by external factors.
The fabrication of bone and cartilage constructs, their combinations and gene therapeutic approaches are demonstrated.
Advantages and disadvantages of these methods are described by in vitro and in vitro testing.
The proof of histotypical function after implantation in vivo is essential.
The use of autologous cells and tissue engineering methods offers the possibility to overcome the disadvantages of classical tissue reconstruction - donor site morbidity of autologous grafts, immunogenicity of allogenic grafts and loosening of alloplastic implants.
Furthermore, tissue engineering widens the spectrum of surgical indications in bone and cartilage reconstruction.
The purpose of this paper is to present principle and technique of proximal lateral column lengthening by calcaneal osteotomy and to critically analyze our preliminary results.
16 patients (7 female, 9 male; average age 52.3 years [24-72 years]) were treated for stage II to III posterior tibial tendon insufficiency by calcaneal osteotomy and medial soft tissue reconstruction (tendon reconstruction, 15; tendon transfer, 8; deltoid ligament repair, 10).
When the AOFAS Ankle-Hindfoot Rating Scale was applied, these patients were shown to have significantly increased their scores from an average preoperative value of 49.1 to a mean postoperative value of 91.1 after a mean follow-up of 24.6 months.
In all but one case no loss of achieved foot correction was noted.
In one case, a fusion of the calcaneocuboid joint had to be performed after 5 months due to painful degenerative joint disease.
At follow-up, all patients had satisfactory restoration of their medial longitudinal arch, reduction of forefoot abduction, and restored arch height.
All patients were able to fully weight-bear the operated foot, and all patients were satisfied with the achieved result.
In the pes planovalgus deformity occurring in stage II to III (as significant degenerative joint disease has not already occurred), osteotomies appear to have a significant role in the operative management and to function by restoring more normal biomechanics, thus allowing tendon reconstruction and tendon transfers to return to successfull function.
By the update of §24 a of the German road traffic act driving under the influence of drugs of abuse can now be fined even in absence of an actual driving impairment.
The only requisite is the detection of certain drugs/metabolites in a blood sample.
Therefore for pretesting there is a need for fast and reliable immunological screening methods in blood/serum.
The new Mahsan microtiterplate enzyme immunoassay (MTP-EIA) is claimed to be sensitive and independent of the matrix.
For an evaluation we carried out a comparison of the cannabinoid and opiate assays from Mahsan (MTP-EIA) and the routinely used Abbott fluorescence polarization immunoassay (FPIA) with a batch of routine serum samples.
For the MTP-EIAs we used the cut-off recommendations of the supplier (cannabinoids 2 ng/mL, opiates 10 ng/mL).
For the Abbott FPIAs the serum samples had to be pretreated (deproteinization with acetone) and appropriate cut-offs were defined by our investigations (cannabinoids 20 ng/mL, opiates 30 ng/mL).
Out of 136 samples screened for cannabinoids 42% were positive with GC-MS and 18% from 123 samples were positive for opiates.
The Abbott cannabinoid FPIA gave false negative results in 23% of GC-MS positive cases and 9% false negatives for opiates while Mahsan MTP-EIA gave no false negatives.
Each of the two cannabinoid assays gave false positive results in 13% of the cases and for the MTP opiate assay 2% of the positives could not be confirmed with GC-MS. As a result of our study the cut-off values for the MTP-EIAs have proved to be suitable for a distinction between potential positives and true negatives.
Systemic karyomegaly associated with interstitial nephritis was first described in 1978 by Mihatsch.
Seven cases have been reported to date.
We give an account of an autopsy case of systemic karyomegaly in a 30-year-old Italian man.
Bizarre enlargement of nuclei was found in renal tubular epithelial cells, Schwann cells and in smooth muscle cells of vessels and bowel and, less obviously, in endothelial and adventitial cells of vessels, in alveolar epithelial cells and in astrocytes of the brain.
These findings were associated with chronic interstitial nephritis, nonspecific hepatopathy, adenocarcinoma of the rectum and multiple slerosis.
The clinical course was marked by chronic renal failure, chronic haemodialysis and renal transplantation.
The patient died 8 years after diagnosis in septic-toxic shock.
The aetiology and pathogenesis of the disease are discussed.
17% of malignant melanomas (n=100) investigated in a dermatologic practice were less than 6 mm in maximal diameter (median diameter: 4.0 +/- 0.9 mm).
The median age of the 17 patients at diagnosis of small-diameter melanomas was 42 years.
The essential epiluminescence microscopic and histopatologic features of these small melanomas resembled those of larger lesions, although their clinical criteria differed from the classic ABCDs.
6 (35,3%) of the small melanomas were were found to be in situ.
This percentage was nearly similar to those in situ lesions within the group of melanomas of 6 mm in diameter or larger (38,3%).
The remaining 11 small lesions were classified as invasive from Clark's level I to V, including all classic histogenetic types (superficial spreading, nodular, unclassified, desmoplastic).
The median thickness of the small invasive melanomas was 0,76 +/- 0,23 mm.
7 small melanomas had apparent histologic remnants of a melanocytic nevus.
Epiluminescence microscopic features of the melanomas were evaluated and statistically compared with those of 100 dysplastic nevi and 50 spindle cell nevi.
The technique of epiluminescence microscopy allowed the identification of such malignant melanomas that could not be discerned by the naked eye or by a pocket-lens.
Mycobacterium gordonae is an atypical mycobacterium of very low pathogenic potential.
It is widely distributed in soil and water and often detected on the mucous membranes of healthy persons.
In recent years, there have been numerous reports of infections by M. gordonae in immunocompromised patients.
In contrast, only four cases of skin infections by M. gordonae in immunocompetent patients have been published.
We report on another patient without evidence of immunodeficiency who developed an atypical mycobacteriosis after a thorn injury during gardening.
M. gordonae was isolated by tissue culture.
The skin lesion cleared completely after treatment with doxycycline for three months.
The article gives a review on oncocytic metaplasia and oncocytic tumors.
Biochemical, cytochemical and molecular genetic findings are discussed.
It has been established, that defects of the respiratory chain occur predominantly in oncocytic foci of the parathyroids and the liver.
The underlying molecular genetic mechanisms are still unclear, however.
In particular, one has to assume that oncocytic metaplasia differs pathogenetically from oncocytic neoplasia.
Furthermore, organ-dependent prognostic differences of oncocytic tumors exist.
Oncocytic carcinomas are predominantly seen in the thyroid and are scarce in other organs.
The molecular genetic basis of this phenomenon is, however, still unknown.
The authors describe the feasibility of developing receptor-specific MR contrast agents for the improved detection of pathology and assessment of organ function.
Receptor specificity of MR contrast agents can be achieved by binding of receptor-specific carriers to ligands.
This concept leads towards a decrease in dose and thus in toxicity.
Specific attachment to parenchymal cells improves tumor-organ contrast and therefore tumor detection.
Specific uptake mechanisms also enable the assessment of organ function.
Future design concepts of novel MR contrast agents may consider the desired uptake in specific cells or organs (ovaries, adrenal glands, lymph nodes etc.)
with subsequent synthesis of appropriate carriers.
Elastosis perforans serpiginosa can arise as a rare complication in patients with Down syndrome.
It is one of the primary perforating disorders characterized by transepithelial elimination of abnormal elastic fibers.
This may reflect an immunological reaction aquist elastic fibers.
We describe a 40-year-old woman with Down's syndrome whose skin lesions were histologically mistaken for lupus vulgaris for a long time.
The position of the talus and the os calcaneum has consequences for the architecture of the forefoot.
Medial tilting of the talus with vertical position provokes flattening of the medial arch and abduction of the forefoot.
Varus position of the calcis and lateral direction of the talus (as in residual clubfoot), however, causes supination and adduction of the forefoot.
Repair of deformities in the hindfoot therefore also influences the forefoot.
A large number of various osteotomies have been proposed at both bones.
The most popular ones are Dwyer's osteotomy at the corpus of the calcis and its modification described by Mitchell at the same location for correction of the cavus foot and the residual clubfoot, and the lengthening osteotomy at the neck of the calcaneum according to Evans.
Indication and operative technique of these three procedures are described in detail.
The closing wedge osteotomy according to Dwyer is indicated in cases of cavus feet.
In clubfeet the os calcis is usually too short and the medial opening wedge osteotomy provokes skin problems.
In these cases an osteotomy according to Mitchell with lateral displacement of the tuber calcanei is more suitable.
In flat- and skewfeet a lengthening osteotomy at the neck of the calcaneum according to Evans can be indicated, especially when the load of the foot is bigger medially under the talus rather than at the lateral margin of the foot.
If these procedures are carried out carefully, they have low complications rates.
Between January 1994 and August 1998, 12 patients with 13 chronic infections after resection arthroplasty were treated successfully with vastus lateralis muscleflap.
One patient was suffering from chronic infection on both sides.
In all cases we found the infected cavity to be the origin of the persistent infection.
The average duration of infection was 8.3 months.
The patients had undergone an average of 3.8 operations.
Up to now there was no recurrent infection, controlled by clinical investigation, ultrasound and laboratory findings in all 13 cases.
Follow up investigation occured 2.5 years (1.5-4.7) after flap transfer.
The flap is easy to harvest.
He has a very constant pattern of vascular pedicle and a wide arc of rotation.
The functional deficits of donor side morbidity are minimal.
That vastus lateralis flap seems to be an ideal procedure to stop draining infections due to infected cavities in the hip region.
Information technologies have been integrated in gynecological oncology treatment and, therefore, new software has been established in hospitals and private clinics.
A German law for hospital tumor registration has attempted to unify the different strategies.
All intentions to establish new documentation systems for tumor diseases need a standardized basic data set.
Nevertheless, local governmental health organizations are not yet prepared to implement a global information system such as prenatal and perinatal care databases.
Financial support and political work is therefore needed.
To optimise the microsurgical training in our clinic we organized a permanent possibility to practice microsurgical techniques of vascular anastomosis.
This includes stepwise education by means of plastic materials, human placenta and the rat model.
The most important role in this concept is played by the placenta.
It supplies a realistic simulation of different in vivo situations concerning microvascular anastomosis.
As to availability, handling and costs the placenta is superior to animal models and has replaced them almost completely in our educational concept.
Since Manfred Bleuler's description of the clinical picture of late onset schizophrenia over 50 years ago, debate has persisted as to whether it is justifiable to differentiate this as a valid, independent entity from the group of classic schizophrenic disorders with early onset.
As this review shows, this question cannot be answered unequivocally even now.
It must rather be remarked that we have neither been able to decisively extend our knowledge since Manfred Bleuler's comprehensive contribution, nor managed to achieve a much sounder basis methodologically.
The reasons for this are the international conceptual and terminological confusion that has developed around this illness group, and on the other hand the methodological limitations of the empirical studies conducted on this clinical picture so far.
Definition of the problem: In parallel with public and philosophical discussions, there is an ongoing debate about euthanasia in theological ethics.
In this situation it is helpful to provide a systematic overview of the different arguments and judgements.
Arguments: A short introduction is followed by a first part dealing with the definition of terms.
The second and major part concerning normative arguments is subdivided into three steps: the level of principles, the more concrete level of actions and finally the level of social consequences.
The third part presents some reflections following the eudaimonistic ethical tradition (the ethics of a good life and death) focusing on the central question: how to find meaning in life when faced with suffering.
Conclusion: It would be fruitful to intensify the ethical reflection both on the problems concerning the foundations of social life, especially the meaning of dignity, autonomy and inviolability of human life, and social consequences of a liberal practice of euthanasia.
In this context ethicists are challenged to reflect on the different approaches to what is or can be a good life and a human death.
Multimodal therapy of oral squamous cell carcinomas today is based on surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy.
Despite the combination of all three therapeutic options, there is still a large number of treatment failures and therefore major questions remain.
Recent investigations suggest that mutations of the p53 tumor supressor gene may account for some of the therapeutic failures.
Inactivation of the gene may be an  important determinant of the efficiacy of today's multimodal therapy protocols.
In 90 patients with squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity biopsy specimens were taken before and after preoperative radiochemotherapy.
From all patients, biopsy and resection material was available for immunohistochemical analysis of p53.
After radiation treatment, 51 patients (57%) showed a complete response; 39 patients (43%) only showed a partial response or did not respond at all.
Among the responders, 82% of the pretherapeutic tumors were p53 positive, whereas among the nonresponders only 56% of the pretherapeutic tumors were p53 positive.
The majority of the residual tumors were also p53 negative according to immunohistology after radiation treatment.
In our study, detection of p53 protein by immunohistochemistry seemed to be connected with a more radiosensitive reaction of the tumors.
Nevertheless, successful strategies for radiation therapy may need to take into account the tissue of origin and the status of p53 in the tumor.
The human cartilage and bone is characterized by a remodeling during the life, well balanced by neosynthesis and degradation of matrix components.
In different joint diseases, it becomes imbalanced and the destruction of the cartilage supersedes the repair.
In tissue processes in disease and in normal turnover of the matrix, these molecules are fragmented and released into surrounding fluids, in the synovial fluid, and then in the blood and the urin, where they can be detected.
The quantitative measurement in the synovial fluid is more specific than in the other body fluids.
The research process in recent years has suggested that these molecular markers of cartilage and bone matrix metabolism can be used to determine diagnosis, the disease severity rather than its presence or absence, the prognosis, and the response to therapy.
They should help to identify the disease mechanism in different joint diseases not only on the tissue but also on the molecular level.
The specific cartilage matrix markers promise to become useful tools in the future in clinical use.
The research in this area is still in the early stages, with most results dated from the end of the 1980s and the 1990s.
Axillary block is a common anaesthetic technique for operations on the hand and forearm.
In our hospital, with many trainees in anaesthesia, only 250 - 300 axillary blocks per year are performed by about 30 colleagues.
This implies a small number of blocks for each anaesthetist.
The present study was designed to assess whether it is possible to teach this technique and use it with an adequate degree of success under these conditions.
We used a nerve stimulator and studied whether the success of the block under these conditions is independent of anaesthetist's experience in this technique.
Furthermore, we examined other factors involved in the success of the block.
The study included 112 patients subjected to elective surgery of the upper extremity; all received an axillary block.
We used a nerve stimulator and injected mepivacaine 1% without adrenaline.
The following parameters were recorded: the number of blocks to date performed by the anaesthetist; the minimal current required for nerve stimulation; the dose of local anaesthetic; the time between the end of injection and the beginning of surgery; the duration of surgery; and the quality of sensory and motor blockade after 10, 20, and 30 min.
Sensory blockade was assessed by the pinprick method (no blockade, analgesia, anaesthesia); motor blockade was judged by comparing the muscle strength of both arms (no blockade, paresis, paralysis).
Data were analyzed using the Mann-Whitney test, with P<0.05 considered statistically significant.
Of the 112 blocks, 95 (85%) were successful; 17 (15%) failed and the patients required general anaesthesia.
Eight of the successful blocks showed a decrease in analgesic quality after >=70 min and required additional analgesics or general anaesthesia.
We found no correlation between the experience of the anaesthetist and the success of the block.
The minimal required current for nerve stimulation in the success group was 0.4 mA and differed significantly from the value of 0.6 mA in the failure group (Table 3).
The dose of mepivacaine was higher in the success group (5.9 vs. 5.3 mg/kg).
Complete sensory blockade was more frequently achieved for the median, ulnar, and radial nerves than for the musculocutaneous and cutaneous brachii medialis (Fig.
The frequency of complete sensory blockade (anaesthesia) had increased by 21.9% between the 20th and 30th min.
Complete motor blockade was less often achieved than sensory blockade (Fig.
Using the method of electrostimulation, the axillary block is an appropriate anaesthetic technique that can be applied in a hospital where each anaesthetist only occasionally performs it.
Prior to injection of the local anaesthetic, the current for nerve stimulation should be reduced to <0.5 mA.
The time between the end of injection and the beginning of surgery should be no less than 30 min because complete sensory blockade can more often be achieved.
The dose of mepivacaine should be no less than 6 mg/kg body weight.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) was discovered 10 years ago as a growth factor that can regulate angiogenesis and in addition the permeability of blood vessels.
Numerous studies have revealed that it is essential for normal embryonic development and that it plays a major role in physiological and pathological events of angiogenesis in adults.
It is unique in that its expression is regulated directly by hypoxia.
These properties are now being exploited in attempts aimed at the induction of new blood vessels in pathological situations such as ischemic heart disease.
Five VEGF forms of 121 to 206 amino-acids are produced from a single gene by alternative splicing.
Cells expressing VEGF usually express several forms simultaneously.
VEGF121 does not contain exons 6 and 7 of the gene and consequently lacks a heparin binding ability.
However, this form is fully  active as an inducer of angiogenesis, and as a blood vessel permeabilizing agent.
Exon 6 and 7 contain 2 independent heparin binding domains.
The VEGF form containing exon 7 (VEGF165) and the vascular endothelial growth factor form containing exon 6 (VEGF145) display similar biological potencies raising the question of why so many VEGF forms are required.
It was found that VEGF121 diffuses better because it does not bind to heparan-sulfate proteoglycans.
In contrast, VEGF145 binds to extracellular matrix ad is released from it slowly.
When the receptor binding properties of VEGF121 and VEGF165 were compared it was found that VEGF165 binds to a class of VEGF receptors that is not recognized by VEGF121.
These receptors are encoded by the neuropilin-1 gene, and we have recently found that the related neuropilin-2 gene also encodes a VEGF165 receptor.
We have recently found evidence indicating the neuropilins form complexes with another VEGF receptor, VEGFR-1.
However, the biological function of this complex remains to be elucidated.
In addition to mucositis and myelotoxicity as well known early reactions after radiotherapy or radiochemotherapy in advanced head and neck tumors, late toxicity following treatment is an often underestimated problem.
The healing of wounds by secondary  intention is a simple method to close  operative defects.
The quality of wound healing will depend on the anatomic site on the face as well as on size and depth of the  defect.
Best functional and cosmetic results are obtained at locations with concave  geometry and when the defect lies  symmetrically at the interface of two  anatomic subunits.
Partial reconstruction or guiding sutures can create a symmetric  defect in relation to anatomic subunits which will heal by second intention.
This simple and efficient operative procedure is ilustrated by two case reports.
Background: Acute infectious mononucleosis (IM) is a selflimiting lymphoproliferative disease of EBV-infected (immortalised) B cells and poly-/oligoclonal cytotoxic T cells which are to a high percentage EBV-specific.
In B cells EBV infection mainly leads to a latent infection with expression of EBV nuclear antigens 1-6 (EBNA1-6) and membrane antigens 1, 2A and 2B (LMP1, LMP2A and LMP2B).
Expression of these EBV latent antigens leads to transformation and immortalisation of infected B cells.
Here we examined if also lytic EBV genes (i.e.
BZLF1), which are associated with a productive EBV infection, are expressed during IM.
Arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVCM) is a frequent underlying disease in young patients with ventricular tachycardia (VT) and sudden death.
Treatment is frequently indicated and is mainly directed at the prevention of ventricular tachyarrhythmias and sudden death.
In a minority of patients with progressive ARVCM and clinical signs of heart failure, pharmacological treatment with vasodilators, diuretics, and digitalis may be required.
A prospective study was performed to compare the sensitivity and accuracy of ultrasound (US), computed tomography (CT), and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) as a bone scan to detect subclinical invasion of the mandible by squamous cell carcinoma of the oral cavity and floor of mouth.
The typical clinical features of myasthenia gravis are weakness and excessive fatiguability of striated muscles that increases during the course of the day or after strenous exercise.
Ocular muscle involvement with ptosis (in 50%) and diplopia (in 25%) are the most common initial signs.
The disease can progress to bulbar muscles and to all other striated muscles (generalized myasthenia).
The muscle fatiguability and a fluctuating course can mislead to a diagnosis of neurasthenia.
Since the treatment of myasthenia gravis is directed at the pathogenetic mechanisms of the disease an early diagnosis is of great significance for the course of the disease.
Also, a false positive diagnosis of myasthenia has to be avoided because of the potentially hazardous side effects of the therapy.
The mainstay of the diagnosis is the history and a subtle clinical examination with tests of excessive muscle fatiguability.
The injection of edrophonium (Tensilon), the electrodiagnostic testing after repitive stimulation (decrement test) and the testing for serum antibodies against acetylcholin receptors have to be performed to secure the diagnosis of myasthenia.
The edrophonium test and the decrement test can yield false positive results in other neuromuscular diseases.
Antibodies are present in 50% of ocular myasthenia and in 80-90% of the generalized form.
The Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome, other neuromuscular diseases, mitochondrial diseases, diseases of the cranial nerves, botulism and the rare congenital myasthenic syndromes have to be considered as differential diagnosis.
The application of biodegradable implants is combined with advantages and disadvan- tages.
They offer a great deal of innovative ideas.
Best evaluation has been done with pins for the fixation of low loaded osteochondral fractures.
When using 2,7 mm Polypin primary mechanical stabilility of distal radius fractures is comparable with the fixation by 1,8 mm K-wires.
A prospective and randomised study with two years follow up, including 183 radial head fractures, showed no significant difference in results and complications in metal and polyactide implants.
For this localisation and other comparable indications the implant can be recommended.
Despite the more extensive degradable device overall costs can be reduced with the polymer implant.
Orien- truded polyactide screws showed good clinical results, newetheless resorption was extremely late within 5 to 7 years.
The treatment of deep cartilage defects is a challenge for every orthopeadic surgeon.
The potention for regeneration of cartilage tissue is minimal and leads to mechanically inferior fibrous tissue.
The established techniques induce the growth of fibrous tissue but fail to prevent arthrosis.
Autologous chondrocyte transplantation seems to be the most promising therapy concept with clinical relevance to reserves a full thickness cartilage defekt with hyaline-like cartilage.
Outcome studies with a follow up from 2-10 years show in up to 90 % good and excellent results for defects on the femoral condyle and 70 % for the patella.
Mechanical testing of the regenerated cartilage showed almost simular stiffness as nearly normal hyaline cartilage.
The available data justify the acceptance of autologous chondrocyte transplantation as a standard procedure for limited indications and well-trained surgeons.
Result of already inaugurated studies will show the potential of chondrocyte transplantation to prevent osteoarthritis.
Vasculitides are rare diseases characterized by inflammation of blood vessels.
According to diameter of the blood vessels involved in the inflammatory process, the clinical presentation and the histological appearance, different vasculitic syndromes may be distinguished.
Primary vasculitides are of unknown origin while secondary vasculitides may be caused by drugs, malignancy or infection.
Panarteriitis nodosa caused by chronic Hepatitis B and mixed cryoglobulinemia secondary to chronic Hepatitis C are classical examples of vasculitides triggered by infections.
However, these are rare complications of chronic viral hepatitis.
Patients infected by HIV frequently suffer from vasculitis, which may be caused by opportunistic infections and by defects in immune regulation.
In numerous case reports, various other infectious particles have been reported to cause different forms of vasculitis, either by direct infection of endothelial cells or by induction of an immunologic process leading to blood vessel destruction.
Immunologically mediated vasculitis secondary to infection may be due to a predisposing reactivity of the patient's immune system.
After successful treatment of the infection, the vasculitis usually subsides.
Therefore, all patients with vasculitis should be evaluated for underlying infection.
To calculate canal compromise and decrease of midsagittal diameter caused by retropulsion of fragments into the spinal canal we analyzed the pre- and postoperative computed tomographies of 32 patients with unstable thoracolumbar burst fractures treated by USS (universal spine system).
Our intention was to examine the efficiency of ultrasound guided repositioning of the dispaced fragments which was performed in all 32 cases.
We found a clear postoperative enlargement of canal area (ASP preoperatively 55 %, postop.
80 %) and midsagittal diameter (MSD preop.
10 of 13 patients presented a postoperative improvement of neurological deficit, no neurological deterioration occured.
Fractures with neurological deficit showed more canal compromise (52 %) and less midsagittal diameter (MSD compromise 51 %) than those without (40 % or 39 %).
There was no correlation between the percentage of spinal canal stenosis and the severity of neurological deficit.
Below L 1 the spinal canal is greater than between Th 11 and L 1, so a more important spinal stenosis is tolerated.
In case of unstable burst fractures with neurological deficit the ultrasound guided spinal fracture reposition is an effective procedure concerning the necessary improvement of spinal stenosis: an additional ventral approach for the revision of the spinal canal is unneeded.
In fractures without neurologic deficit the repositioning of the displaced fragments promises an avoidance of long-term damages such as myelopathia and claudicatio spinalis.
In common the traumatic spondylolisthesis is not a life threatening injury.
An exact diagnosis is mandatory as well as a differentiated therapy.
Especially the correct decision about the therapy (operative vs conservative) including the technical demanding operative procedures is based on an experienced surgeon.
These patients should be transferred to a specialised centre.
The intensity of DNA degradation in fixed tissues is dependent on the fixation solution and the fixation time.
The aim of this study was the investigation of DNA degradation over fixation times of up to 70 days in different tissues (muscle, brain, liver, bone) and with different formalin concentration (2 %, 4 %, 8 %; unbuffered).
An additional test was performed to see whether the fixed tissues could be individualized using PCR analysis.
The smallest amounts of DNA were extracted from liver and brain and the largest from muscle and bone.
The amount of DNA that could be extracted decreased with increasing formalin concentration, while at the same time DNA degradation increased.
With the PCR-VNTR system HUMTH 01, all fixed samples could be typed regardless of the fixation time and the formalin concentration.
The draining sinus is an unpleasant complication of acne conglobata, acne fulminans, acne inversa, rosacea conglobata and rosacea fulminans (pyoderma faciale).
It is most common on the face, especially in the nasolabial folds, and on the neck below the mandibular line.
Clinically, it is an elongated (2-5 cm long), elevated, periodically inflamed lesion, which sporadically discharges pus.
The lesion persists with no tendency to spontaneous regression.
Histopathologically, it consists of elaborate, epithelialized galleries connected to the skin surface at multiple points.
It contains corneocytes, hairs, bacteria, serum, inflammatory cells and epitheloid granulomas.
A surgical thread placed into the skin provides a model in which the generation of sinus tracts can be studied.
Intralesional corticosteroid injection, cryosurgery and isotretinoin are not always very effective.
Sometimes complete excision of the lesion is necessary.
The draining sinus is a special form of scar analogous to the pilonidal cyst.
A thoracic outlet syndrome is only rarely caused by osseous anomalies.
Instead, it is a soft-tissue disease, where the C8 and T1 roots or the proximal inferior trunk of the brachial plexus are compressed by fibromuscular anomalies between the inferior cervical spine and the first rib or pleura.
Thoracic outlet syndrome is a clinical diagnosis.
If surgery is recommended, it should be concentrated on the fibromuscular anomalies and not on the first rib.
Transaxillary removal of the first rib carries an important risk of serious complications.
Among these, brachial plexus injury is the most frequent one.
Objective: The objective of this survey was to investigate the current status of the epidural and intrathecal management in patients with chronic cancer and non-cancer pain in Germany and Austria.
Methods: In June 1997 a questionnaire was sent to 598 German and Austrian anaesthesiologists specialized in pain therapy.
Questions concerning the use of medicaments for epidural and intrathecal treatment of chronic pain were asked.
Results: The response rate was 23%.
The data show that 78% of the anaesthesiologists use epidural or intrathecal analgesia in the therapy of chronic pain.
Local anaesthetics are used by 85% of these anaesthesiologists, followed by morphine (72%), clonidine (48%), buprenorphine (34%), baclofen (20%), fentanyl (13%) and sufentanil (10%).
For most of the treatments local anaesthetics are used, again followed by opioids und clonidine.
In the 137 answering pain clinics 79.821 epidural and intrathecal analgetic treatments are performed per year.
Discussion: Epidural and intrathecal pain therapy is frequently used in Germany and Austria, either as a complementary or alternative treatment to systemic pain therapy.
Local anaesthetics followed by opioids are the most commonly used medicaments for this treatment.
For some of the applied substances neurotoxicological data are lacking.
The use of these substances has to be considered very carefully.
Intraartial conduction disturbances (IACD) are the known substrate of re-entrant atrial arrhythmias and their diagnosis is important for the selection of proper therapy.
Signs of IACD can be missed on the standard ECG, and signal averaged (SA) P wave analysis has proved valuable for the evaluation of electrophysiological (EPS) properties of atrial myocardium.
Unfavourable EPS effects of RAA pacing are known to electrophysiologists, but this aspect is rarely considered in normal practice, and RAA based pacing modes remain standard even for pts.
We examined and compared EPS effects of different atrial pacing modes using two diagnostic tools: IEGM obtained from two atrial leads of biatrial pacing system (via telemetry) and time domain analysis of SA P wave in 22 pts.
with BiA pacing system (implanted due to atrial arrhythmias and IACD).
The results showed that different atrial pacing modes influence atrial activation timing parameters differently: RAA pacing aggravates IACD in comparison to sinus rhythm; the effects of CS pacing is less visible.
BiA pacing normalises all atrial activation times.
The normalisation of SA P wave duration, reduction of SA P wave dispersion, increasing of RMS 20 and decreasing of LAS 5 and finally abolition of presence of late atrial potentials in most of pts.
indicates beneficial effects of BiA pacing (in pts.
with IACD) in comparison to sinus rhythm and RAA pacing.
Unfavourable EPS effects of RAA pacing in patients with IACD indicates suitability the need for alternative (resynchronising) atrial pacing modes.
Time domain analysis of SA P wave is a valuable and sensitive diagnostic tool for non-invasive evaluation of EPS effects of different modes of atrial pacing.
Background: We report a case of irreversible unilateral hypoglossal nerve palsy in connection with nasal septum surgery in intubation anaesthesia.
On account of the spatial distance, there is no danger of injuring the hypoglossal nerve during nasal surgery.
However, in the otorhinolaryngological and anaesthesiological literature, some cases of hypoglossal palsy following endotracheal intubation, use of the laryngeal mask airway, bronchoscopy and laryngoscopy are reported.
The endoscopic guided puncture tracheostomy has established itself in many intensive care units.
Manufacturers offer complete tracheostomy kits, based on the described techniques from Ciaglia (Cook-Set), as well as from Griggs (Portex-Set).
The goal of this investigation was to show the advantages, disadvantages, costs and risks of the puncture tracheostomy and to make a comparison using conventional procedures.
Chronic lymphoplasmacellular osteomyelitis may occur in children, adolescents and adults, but has not been found in newborns or babies either in our series or in the literature.
Symptoms suggesting an acute disease like fever are uncommon, but a primary chronic course with symptomatic and asymptomatic periods is typical.
Pain and swelling are the main symptoms; painless masses are rare.
In children and adolescents the clavicle and metaphyseal regions of long bones are typical sites of chronic abacterial osteomyelitis.
In adults the clavicles or the first two ribs are mainly affected with synovitis of the adjacent joints, but the long bones are rarely involved.
Laboratory findings are non-specific but important for the differential diagnosis.
The sedimentation rate and c-reactive protein might be elevated.
The X-ray examination shows osteolytic, sclerotic or mixed bony changes and, in case of a diaphyseal involvement, onionskinlike periosteal bone formation may be present, suggesting a malignant process.
In late stages sclerotic bone formations may be seen as a rest.
Uni- or multifocal lesions can be detected by bonescan, as can asymptomatic lesions.
Magnetic resonance imaging shows gross signal intensity differences both in the bone and perifocal soft tissue and involvement of the synovium with gadolinium DPTA enhancement in T1-weighted images.
In early stages of the disease granulocytes, microabscesses and new bone formations might suggest bacterial osteomyelitis that cannot be differentiated by histology.
In intermediate phases lymphocytic and plasmacellular infiltrates are found, whereas in late phases sclerotic bone formations and fibrosis of the bone marrow are seen histologically.
In chronic lymphoplasmacellular osteomyelitis, all clinical, radiological and histological findings, as well as negative bacteriological cultures, are mandatory and will allow a definitive diagnosis to be made.
The disease may be uni- or multifocal, and new bone lesions may occur over time, as well as skin manifestations, which can be found years before or after bone involvement.
The association with dermatological diseases and/or synovitis led to the acronym SAPHO syndrome (synovitis, acne, pustulosis, hyperostosis, osteomyelitis).
For the treatment non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs are effective for pain relief, reduction of swelling and dysfunction.
Antibiotics have been used in several series and are not effective.
Major surgery is not recommended even for recurrences, and the prognosis for growth and function is excellent in the long term despite recurrences over several years.
A woman with severe stiff-man syndrome showed periodic cardiovascular dysregulation.
The blood pressure changed spontaneously every 5-10 min.
This rhythm was also maintained after relaxation.
However, the vegetative and motoric disturbances disappeared after intrathecal application of baclofen.
It is speculated that spinal GABAergic mechanisms are responsible for the tonic regulation of the cardiovascular system.
The frequency and prognostic relevance of sarcoid-likelesions and microcarcinosis in regional lymph nodes in gastric cancer (n = 113; pT1-3, pN0-1, pM0, R0) were investigated; the prognostic value was compared with pT and pN stage, grading and Laurén's tumor classification with Cox's multivariate regression-model.
Sarcoid like lesions were found in 34 % of the cases (n = 113).
Statistical analysis did not indicate that they had any prognostic value or showed whether or not microcarcinosis or metastasis was present; they were independent of pT stage, histological tumor type, tumor grading, and the clinical course of disease.
Microcarcinosis (defined as scattered carcinoma cells within lymph node sinuses or pulp without adjacent stromal reaction) was revealed by immunohistochemistry in 90 % of pN0 cases; the presence of 3 or more tumor cells per lymph node section in over 10 % of sampled lymph nodes per case carried a significant prognostic value.
In microcarcinosis without evidence of metastasis, the number of tumor cells and the number of involved lymph nodes are of prognostic value.
In pN1 cases microcarcinosis was found as well as the metastases in 97 % and had no additional prognostic value.
Microcarcinosis alone has a different significance from lymph node metastasis for prognosis.
This article summarizes the most important results of the Turku Conference on active strategies for an aging workforce, which took place in Turku/Finland in 1999.
About 140 experts from all EU-member states participated.
The article can be seen as a contribution to the current change in the debate on labor market policy concerning older workers in Germany.
The incidence of coronary artery aneurysm varies in the range from 0.2% to 4.9%.
Ninety per cent of these were associated with atherosclerotic coronary artery disease, where vessel ectasia and poststenotic dilatations are not an infrequent finding.
We present the case of a 67 year old patient with coronary artery aneurysm and coexisting coronary artery disease of the right coronary artery.
The patient was symptomatic and had a posterolateral myocardial infarction.
We performed a PTCA and stent-implantation of the stenosis and coronary artery aneurysm of the right coronary artery.
After the procedure, the patient could be discharged without angina pectoris.
A control-angiography will be performed six months later.
TMLR (Transmyocardial laser revascularization) is a disputed cardiosurgical technique available in Europe since 1994 that aims to deliver additional blood flow to ischemic myocardium from the left heart chamber.
Goal of our study is morphological examination of laser channels in human hearts to answer the questions: Are there patent laser channels with communication to the left chamber and to intramural vessels?
We examined hearts of 10 patients who died during the first 18 days after TMLR.
Channels were examined in histological serial sections under the light microscope.
Laser channels in the first days postoperatively have a lumen diameter of about 1 mm and are surrounded by coagulation necrosis about 500 µm thick.
Despite phagocytic removal of necrotic tissue the lumen diameter decreases during the following two weeks.
Open intramyocardial channels can be shown in all patients.
These channels communicate with intramural vessels, but in no instance with chamber lumen.
Our results suggest that clinical benefits are based on improved distribution of coronary blood.
Additional blood is not delivered from left chamber lumen to the myocardium.
However, our patients represent the small subgroup of the deceased.
If similar observations can be made in the majority of patients living symptomfree after TMLR remains open.
Recurrent miscarriages are, like sporadically occurring miscarriage, often (approx.
50 %) due to chromosomal aberrations.
An undefined proportion of the other half may be due to immunological incompliances.
The basis for this assumption is the fact that the maternal immune system recognizes paternal antigens and rejects them.
The initial hypothesis that such immune reaction is due to a high similarity between the maternal and paternal HLA systems (HLA sharing) is most likely incorrect.
Nevertheless, the incomplete recognition of the fetus by the maternal immune system and the resulting insufficient protection is basis for the active immune therapy with partner or donor lymphocytes.
Several placebo-controlled studies have been performed.
Due to the small number of cases, results were not significant.
A metaanalysis of all studies, however, proves significant effects of the active immune therapy.
The risks of active immune therapy led to the development of passive immune therapy with immune globulins (IVIG).
This therapy, however, is relatively expensive and obviously no more successful than the active immune therapy.
In a metaanalysis of all published results, IVIG was not significantly more effective than treatment with placebo.
The indication for both forms of immune therapy is given after 3 or more consecutive abortions, after exclusion of other reasons for these abortions.
It appears that only primary aborting patients are suitable for active immune therapy.
Athough the concept of immune therapy is still under debate, alternative concepts are not available.
Hence, new therapeutic approaches are also not available.
The first electronic implantable hearing aids for patients with hearing loss are coupled to the ossicular chain or perilymph during implantation and are now available.
Our new Tübingen implant designed for sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) is the combination of an implantable microphone and piezotransducer.
To avoid hearing losses during implantation, the Tübingen piezotransducer will be (1) fixed to the mastoid cavity and (2) positioned to one of the ossicular target points.
This can be done with a micromanipulator which will be implanted together with transducer and microphone in the mastoid cavity.
The manipulator weights 0.7 g. With four degrees of freedom, it allows highly secure and safe positioning of the transducer's probe tip to the ossicular chain under close to stereotactic conditions.
The main advantages of the present micromanipulator are (1) easy handling during surgery, (2) the transducer's precise positioning to the ossicular target point with sufficient degrees of freedom, and (3) the transducer's stable fixation in the mastoid cavity in the final position.
Following integrated safety as the leading principle, ossicular or inner ear injuries caused, e.g., by the patient's head movement or unintentional manual contact by the surgeon, are minimized.
The micromanipulator is, as it were, the surgeon's vibration-free "artificial hand".
The manipulator's development and its optimization to the mastoid cavity by test implantation in 50 human temporal bones are shown in detail.
While coupling the transducer to the body of the incus, transducer, microphone, and micromanipulator can be implanted into 76% of all mastoid cavities without protrusion.
In the case of transducers coupling to the long process of the incus, the protrusion-free implantation rate of the above-mentioned three implant modules is 78%.
The role of neuroimaging in the acute setting of head trauma is to diagnose the extent of intracranial injury and to identify all lesions which require urgent neurosurgical treatment.
Computed tomography (CT) remains the most important diagnostic tool for initial screening of trauma victims.
Although magnetic resonance imaging (MR) has higher sensitivity to most traumatic lesions than CT, due to the ease and speed of CT, and the fact that sufficient monitoring of critically ill patients during the examination is much easier with CT than with MR, mean that MR is not the imaging modality of choice for the initial diagnostic work-up.
Recent MR techniques such as FLAIR or diffusion imaging further improve the sensitivity of MR in head trauma.
Conventional angiography is currently indicated only for few suspected vascular lesions (e.g.
traumatic arterio-venous fistulas, vascular dissections).
Injuries to the posterior cruciate ligament are among the major injuries to the knee joint.
Today we are often confronted with an inapproprate and delayed diagnosis of this injury and its concomitant lesions.
Additionally, the outcome of operative treatment has not yet reached an acceptable rate of satisfactory results.
Therefore, the goal of this current concept review is to give a comprehensive insight into anatomy and biomechanics, injury mechanisms and pathobiomechanics, based on our experiences and data from the international literature.
A further goal is to clarify diagnostic problems with respect to clinical examination and imaging techniques.
We also present a differential concept for the perioperative and conservative management of posterior cruciate ligament deficient knees in order to also adequately address concomitant injuries such as posterolateral rotatory instability and combined anterior cruciate ligament injuries with the aim of further improving results.
Sevoflurane, like all currently used volatile anaesthetics, is degraded by carbon dioxide absorbents.
The most significant degradant is a haloalkene known trivially as "compound A".
Compound A is nephrotoxic in rats and, at higher doses, in nonhuman primates, causing proximal tubular necrosis.
There has been much interest in the potential for compound A toxicity in humans.
Inhaled compound A concentrations are greatest at low flow rates, high sevoflurane concentrations, warmer absorbent, barium hydroxide vs soda lime, and drier absorbent.
Typical inspired compound A concentrations during low-flow and closed-circuit sevoflurane anaesthesia in humans are 8-24 and 20-32 ppm with soda lime and barium hydroxide lime, respectively.
Renal effects of compound A production during sevoflurane anesthesia have been examined in surgical patients and volunteers, using standard (creatinine clearance, serum BUN and creatinine) and experimental (urine excretion of protein, glucose, NAG, GST, AAP) markers of renal function.
Investigations to date in surgical patients show similar renal effects of low-flow sevoflurane, low-flow isoflurane or high-flow sevoflurane.
There have been no case reports of compound A-associated renal injury in humans.
In volunteers, one study found changes in experimental but not conventional renal markers, while other investigations show no significant changes in either standard or experimental markers.
The mechanism of compound A nephrotoxicity in rats appears to involve metabolism to glutathione and cysteine conjugates, and their subsequent renal uptake and metabolism by pathways that are different in rats and humans.
In the report of the 1995 World Health Federation/International Society and Federation of Cardiology (WHF/ISFC) Task Force on the Definition and Classification of Cardiomyopathies, the definition of heart muscle diseases was updated.
Idiopathic, autoimmune, and infectious forms of inflammatory cardiomyopathy are now recognized in this definition.
Enteroviruses, adenoviruses and cytomegaloviruses are considered as main etiopathological factors in the pathogenesis of inflammatory heart disease.
We report our experience in managing a temporal bone fracture after head trauma that had no apparent clinical signs.
Recurrent CSF rhinorrhea and meningitis lead to extensive diagnostic procedures.
Operative exploration of the temporal bone demonstrated a fracture line along the horizontal part of the carotid artery.
The location of the fracture did not cause such typical symptoms as hearing impairment, facial paralysis, vertigo or tinnitus.
Only CSF liquorrhea through the Eustachian tube indicated a fracture at the lateral skull base.
Hyperkeratosis lenticularis perstans (Flegel's disease) is a rare but clinically and histologically highly characteristic genodermatosis.
We report on new immunohistochemical and ultrastructural findings suggesting a complex disorder of epidermal differentiation.
In this context, a good response to calcipotriol, a synthetic vitamin D3 derivative is of particular interest.
Pulmonary embolism is a frequent and potentially life-threatening event with uncharacteristic clinical manifestations.
Diagnosis is commonly established by ventilation/perfusion scintigraphy and pulmonary angiography.
Both methods, however, carry substantial drawbacks.
Therefore, clinicians claim that there is a need for an accurate and non-invasive diagnostic modality.
Spiral CT of the pulmonary arteries is a recent modality, that allows reliable visualization of emboli in pulmonary arteries up to fourth-order branches.
This paper reviews the technical aspects, typical findings and diagnostic pitfalls of this recent technique.
The potential role of spiral CT in the screening of patients with suspected pulmonary embolism is discussed and selected cases are presented.
Introduction: Interleukin-12-p70 (IL-12-p70) is a potent immunoregulatory cytokine composed of a heavy chain (p40) and a light chain (p35).
Contradicting results have been reported with regard to leukocyte release and systemic concentration of IL-12 after polytrauma.
Methods: We daily analyzed systemic concentrations of IL-12 in polytrauma patients (n = 37, mean ISS 33.9) in comparison to healthy donor values during intensive care course by ELISA.
Patients were divided according to their mean IL-12 levels into those with elevated IL-12 (group 1, n = 7), those with decreased IL-12 (group 2, n = 4) and those with IL-12 in the normal range (group 3, n = 26).
Results: Patients in group 1 revealed elevated levels of IL-12 up to p70 > 1000 pg/ml and p40 > 2500 pg/ml.
The common clinical feature of group 1 was a thorax trauma in combination with pneumonia (85 % survivors).
Patients with single thorax trauma or pneumonia without thorax trauma (group 3) showed normal IL-12 values.
Patients with decreased IL-12 levels revealed also a thorax trauma and pneumonia but all patients succumbed.
The groups significantly differ in their stay in the intensive care unit, in TISS, in MODS score and in respiratory ratio, but not in ISS, mean CRP values and leukocyte counts.
Correlation analysis revealed no significant relation between systemically altered IL-12 values and clinical parameters, with the exception of a negative correlation of p70 and ISS (r = -0.785) or MODS score (r = -0.314) in group 1.
Conclusions: After major injuries there is no overall suppression of IL-12 formation.
Patients with normal or elevated IL-12 levels belong mainly to the survivors, whereas patients with decreased IL-12 levels are at high risk of succumbing to multi-organ failure.
This article reviews the pathogenesis and clinical and imaging findings in shoulder impingement syndrome.
Shoulder impingement is caused by compression of the supraspinatus tendon underneath the coracoacromial arch, mainly in forward flexion of the arm.
Different stages of impingement syndrome are described.
Stage I relates to edema and hemorrhage of the supraspinatus tendon.
Stage II is characterized by bursal inflammation and fibrosis, as well as tendinopathy.
In stage III there is a tear of the rotator cuff.
Moreover, calcifying tendinitis, fractures and pain originating from the cervical spine may mimic shoulder impingement syndrome.
Imaging is important for the exact diagnosis.
Standard radiographs are the basis of imaging in shoulder impingement syndrome.
They may demonstrate subchondral sclerosis of the major tuberosity, subacromial spurs, and form anomalies of the acromion.
They are also important in the differential diagnosis of shoulder impingement syndrome and demonstrate calcifying tendinitis, fractures and neoplasm.
Ultrasonography has found acceptance as a screening tool and even as a final diagnostic method by many authors.
However, there is a high interobserver variability in the demonstration of rotator cuff tears.
Its usefulness has therefore been questioned.
MR imaging is probably the method of choice in the evaluation of the rotator cuff and surrounding structures.
Several investigations have demonstrated that differentiation of early findings, such as tendinopathy versus partial tears, may be difficult with MR imaging.
However, reproducibility for full-thickness tears appears to be higher than for sonography.
Moreover, specificity appears to be superior to sonography.
MR arthrography is not universally accepted.
However, it allows for more exact differentiation of discrete findings and may be indicated in preoperative planning.
Standard arthrography and CT have a limited role in the current assessment of the rotator cuff.
Gastric carcinoma of the infiltrative type (according to Ming) occasionally shows adenomatous differentiation only.
Over the past 18 years, we have observed 23 cases of this tumour type, accounting for 3.6 % of all surgically treated gastric carcinomas.
Macroscopically they were classified as Borrmann IV or III, while histologically most of them were well differentiated.
Histologically, these tumours retained the pre-existing structures of the stomach, most readily observable at the tunica muscularis propria; a pronounced desmoplasia was also characteristic, particularly in the submucosal and subserosal layers.
In all cases the tumour tissue spread inside lymphatic vessels.
All but 2 cases with metastatically involved lymph nodes, often small, showed infiltration of the lymph node sinus; in three quarters of cases the serosa was infiltrated by the tumour.
Significant findings among the patients under observation for extended periods included bilateral ovarian metastases in 4 of 5 women examined and tumour recurrence at the anastomosis in 6 of 9 patients in whom Billroth II operation had been performed.
The mean survival time of 16 patients was 14.9 months.
Owing to the diffuse type of tumour growth, extensive surgery is recommended as in cases of signet ring cell cancer.
The high incidence of small lymph node metastases from this type of tumour should also be taken in account at preoperative staging.
Preoperative diagnosis of this tumour subtype is difficult, because histological criteria alone do not allow clear identification.
Close cooperation with clinical investigators is necessary, and intraoperative assessment of the tumour - including frozen section of necessary - in particular is of the outmost importance.
One rare case of so-called massive idiopathic osteolysis Gorham-Stout is presented.
In a 77-year-old female patient the whole right femoral head and neck of femur was resorbed within 2.5 month following trauma.
As a histologic cause for the osteolysis, a marked stimulation of osteoclasts on the spongiosa, especially intracortically, was observed.
The course and the clinical findings are described, and the pathogenesis and treatment are discussed in comparison with the present literature.
The results suggest that an early antiresorptive therapy (calcitonin, bisphosphonates) could stop the progressive osteolytic changes.
In this paper the relationship between psychodiagnosis and client-centered therapy is discussed.
Rogers is wrongly said to have rejected any kind of diagnosis and that this therapy form has therefore developed an ambiguous relationship to this issue.
If one sees psychodiagnosis as something psychodynamic, and symptoms as defense strategies against underlying conflicts, then a comprehensive 'status diagnosis' using more or less traditional psychiatric categories appears compatible with theory-led client-centered diagnosis in the initial phase and during the course of therapy.
Client-centered psychotherapy itself may be seen as a continuous process of dialogue in which 'assumed diagnoses' (embedded in the therapist's 'empathic knowledge') are jointly checked and in which the client through direct experience learns to understand and change his 'diagnosis'.
In the examination of reversible segmental (articular) hypomobile dysfunction (blockage) of the spine, we have to recognize by palpation the feeling of beginning resistance at the end of the passive movement ("barrier").
This is the main finding to diagnose segmental (articular) dysfunction.
Normal mobility gives us a slowly increasing resistance with possible springing at the end.
In contrary, the sudden feeling of hard tension without springing is seen as typical for the restricted movement in articular dysfunction, i. e. restriction of joint facet gliding.
Multiple intra- and paraglandular lymph nodes develop in the parotid gland, including salivary gland tissue with acinar and ductal formations.
In the same way heterotopic salivary gland tissue can be localized in cervical lymph nodes.
Except for the frequently occurring Warthin tumours, primary salivary gland tumours, which develop in the lymph nodes of the parotid gland or the cervical lymph nodes, are rare.
Examples of these are adenomas (pleomorphic adenoma, basal cell adenoma) and carcinomas (acinic cell carcinoma, mucoepidermoid carcinoma, sebaceous gland carcinoma).
Three of our own observations (sebaceous lymphadenoma, acinic cell carcinoma, mucoepidermoid carcinoma) are analysed.
The condition for the diagnosis of primary salivary gland tumour within a lymph node is reliable evidence that the salivary gland tissue is tumour-free and that no other occult carcinoma is present.
We report on a three month old infant presenting with vaginal bleeding.
Precocious pseudopuberty due to an autonomous ovarian cyst was diagnosed.
Within three months the follicular cyst spontaneously regressed.
Elevated estradiol levels also decreased spontaneously.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether 24 hour patch testing with 0.5% sodium lauryl sulphate (SLS) could reliably predict skin susceptibility to an irritant when compared with the alkali resistance test (ART), a widely used method employing sodium hydroxide.
After having given informed consent, 40 patients (age range from 20 to 60 years) with an active irritant contact dermatitis (ICD), 40 patients in whom ICD had cleared, as well as 40 healthy volunteers serving as controls were tested.
The skin responses to SLS were assessed both visually and by measurement of transepidermal water loss (TEWL) as an indicator of stratum corneum integrity.
SLS significantly increased the erythema scores and TEWL in patients with healed ICD, and the increase of TEWL was even more pronounced in patients with active ICD.
By contrast, a decrease in alkali resistance was found in patients with active ICD only but not in patients with healed ICD.
The data obtained indicate that the SLS test, unlike ART, may provide a non-invasive tool predicting a possible constitutional skin susceptibility or indicating a subclinically impaired epidermal barrier function.
However, because of the relatively high interindividual variation, a cut-clear statement concerning the skin susceptibility cannot be made by this test.
On the other hand, the ART seems only to be useful for following and documenting the healing period following ICD.
Introduction: The correction of low to moderate astigmatism is possible today by means of photoablation (PRK), while the treatment of moderate and higher astigmatism still involves refractive keratotomy.
Experience has shown that cataract surgery, using modern tunnel techniques with self-healing incisions, results in earlier stability in both the refractive outcome and wound healing.
In this study, we attempted to combine the advantages of lamellar keratotomy with those of a pair-wise T-incision as arcuate lamellar keratotomy (ALK).
An often unrecognized but potentially fatal complication, mostly seen in posttraumatic patients under intensive care, is reactive acute cholecystitis.
On account of the high specificity of ultrasound diagnosis in the biliary system we decided to examine the ultrasound criteria for early detection of posttraumatic cholecystitis.
Ultrasound of the abdomen was performed prospectively, seven times on different days, in each of 40 artificially respirated patients under intensive care conditions over a period of 12 months.
The results show that artificial respiration, parenteral feeding and previous trauma can lead to tardive (28/40) wallthickening or to a three-layered wall of the gallbladder (9/40).
In 22.5 % of patients (9/40) we found the sonographic signs of acute cholecystitis.
In correlation with the clinical signs, cholecystectomy was indicated in only two patients.
The preoperative ultrasonographic findings and clinical signs of 23 patients with the diagnosis of acute reactive cholecystitis were analysed retrospectively.
We found good correlation between sonographic and clinical signs of acute cholecystitis in 21 of these 23 patients.
Our study shows that the morphological correlate of a thickened three-layered gallbladder wall can occur in the context of systemic alterations, even if there is no underlying cholecystitis.
The diagnosis of acute reactive cholecystitis and the indication for cholecystectomy should be based on the synopsis of pathologic and clinical findings.
Osteoporosis is characterized by reduced bone mass and a deterioration of bone structure which results in an increased fracture risk.
The purpose of this review is to evaluate structure analysis techniques in the diagnosis of osteoporosis.
Several imaging techniques were applied to analyze trabecular bone, such as conventional radiography, high-resolution computed tomography (HR-CT) and high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (HR-MRI).
The best results were obtained using high-resolution tomographic techniques.
The highest spatial resolutions in vivo were achieved using HR-MRI.
These studies show that texture parameters and bone mineral density predict bone strength and osteoporotic fractures in a complementary fashion.
Combining both techniques yields the best results in the diagnosis of osteoporosis.
Classification of cosmetics, which are more and more similar to topical therapeutic agents, is getting increasingly difficult for dermatologists.
Their definition within the EU and the respective European directives, replacing national laws step by step, will be briefly presented.
The problems of distinguishing cosmetics from medicinal products will be discusssed in detail by examples from clinical practice.
Finally, we will review the various active substances which tend to be added to cosmetics following the global trend in the cosmetic industry towards developing "medicinally" active cosmetics, and in the pharmaceutical industry towards "cosmetically" oriented medicinal products as part of a current "life-style" ideology.
In some clinical dermatological fields these active substances may allow the dermatologists to use cosmetics as topical therapeutic agents.
The decision whether a rotator cuff tear has a traumatic or degenerative origin still causes some controversy.
Especially in medical expert appraisements the etiology of the rotator cuff tear plays an important role refering to insurance services for the patient.
The purpose of this paper is to compare the intraoperative pathomorphologic shape of the cuff tear in traumatic and degenerative cases.
This study reports of 56 patients with rotator cuff tears which were devided in primarily acute, subacute traumatic and degenerative study groups refering to their history of present illness.
We considered the location of the tear, the shape and the size.
Furthermore the grade of retraction of the supraspinatus tendon, its quality and the shape of the long head of biceps were examined.
The results showed that in general the shape of the tear gives only in some cases significant information whether the etiology is traumatic or not.
The isolated rupture of the subscapularis muscle and the hematoma at the edge of the tendon is siginificant for the trauma.
In comparison with the degenerative study group the tenosynovitis and the dislocation of the long head of biceps is in our study sigificant for traumatic tears.
Health care decision making in incompetent severely ill patients presents many difficult medical, ethical, and legal problems for the physician.
At the same time nurses represent the group of medical professionals who have the closest contact with the patient and who have to carry out most of the decisions and instructions.
Barber's disease is produced by short hairs that penetrate the interdigital spaces of the hands.
The following chronic inflammatory reaction causes fistulas or sinuses and cysts.
We present the case of a patient with interdigital pilonidal sinuses of all web spaces in both hands.
Such an extensive case of this occupational disease has so far not been reported.
The treatment of critically ill patients compromises frequently between an adequate fluid resuscitation for maintenance of a sufficient regional perfusion on the one hand and the avoidance of pulmonary edema on the other hand.
The application of the transpulmonary indicator dilution method allows the orientation of fluid therapy by using the parameters 'intrathoracic blood volume' and 'extravascular lung water'.
This technique is less invasive than the pulmonary artery catheter since it only needs a 3 or 4 French catheter in the femoral artery.
Additionally, controlling the fluid therapy with the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure is severely limited in the mechanically ventilated patient.
Therefore, the intrathoracic blood volume may be of advantage in the critically care patient in comparison to the pulmonary capillary wedge pressure to assess the cardiac preload.
Furthermore, the indocyanine clearance adds a valuable parameter to assess liver function when the double indicator technique is used.
Hypnosis, autogenic training, progressive relaxation and biofeedback show good empirical evidence concerning relaxation-therapy and are useful techniques in psycho- or behavior-therapy.
Though they share some aspects with body-oriented psychotherapy these relaxation-techniques show a modern scientific orientation and are therefore to seperate from religious meditation.
Though in details somewhat different, the methodology of these techniques creates a framework, in which the psychophysiological determined relaxation response is easily elicited.
However, regular practice of the patients is requiered.
Focussed attention, imagination and new attributions of bodily or mental perceptions play a dominant role concerning the therapeutic effects, which may contribute to enhanced internal selfcontrol and selfesteem.
Controlled clinical studies give evidence to positive effects concerning various psychosomatic disorders (e.g.
headache, pain, ess.
hypertension), as well as anxiety and sleeping disorders.
As components of psychotherapeutic or behavioral programs, there is even more evidence for effects of relaxation in a broad spectrum of disorders (e.g.
Relaxation therapy is a well established and scientific-based component in the treatment of psychic, psychosomatic or psychiatric disorders, except psychosis.
Juvenile hyaline fibromatosis is a rare autosomal recessive connective tissue disease first described in 1873 by Murray.
Major diagnostic criteria are multiple cutaneous tumors and gingival hypertrophy; minor criteria include contractures, osteolytic lesions and a positive family history.
A 35-year-old woman suffering from Crohn's disease for 3 years developed painful erythematous nodular lesions predominantly on the dorsa of her hands and feet, as well as on her elbows and wrists.
The clinical features and histopathological picture of leukocytoclastic vasculitis were both highly suggestive of erythema elevatum diutinum.
No improvement of the skin lesions was observed during treatment with high doses of oral steroids.
In contrast, treatment with dapsone resulted in a marked reduction of skin lesions.
During a new attack of her Crohn's disease the erythema elevatum diutinum lesions flared again.
The parallel clinical course of erythema elevatum diutinum and Crohn's disease, as well as the detection of immune complexes and neutrophilic granulocytes in lesions of both diseases, strongly suggest a common etiology.
This hypothesis is discussed in context with this case and the recent literature.
The mammalian brain is capable of a substantial functional reorganization, manifesting on a cortical somatotopical and on a behavioral level.
Possible mechanisms are reviewed based on the work by others and ourselves on somatosensory reorganization in humans.
The somatosensory system is characterized by divergent projections from the periphery to the cerebral cortex.
Changes in synaptic weights allow for reorganization of sensory processing: On one side, limb amputation will result in a representational "invasion" of the deafferentated cortex from neighboring regions with concomitant perceptual changes.
On the other side, sensorimotor training can increase the representational cortical zone of a limb.
Plastic changes can be temporary or persistent.
Modulating factors like pain and certain drugs seem to induce a permissive state in the cortex resulting in enhanced reorganization.
Thus, specific physical training combined with pharmacoceutical modulation holds promise to improve functional recovery after brain lesions.
There have been some prospective randomized studies which compared primary angioplasty with intravenous thrombolysis in patients with an acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
However, a substantial number of patients with AMI who would not have been included in those trials are treated with one of these two therapeutic options.
To describe the proportions, characteristics, and outcome of these patients treated with primary angioplasty or thrombolysis we analyzed the data of the prospective "Maximal Individual Optimized Therapy for Acute Myocardial Infarction" (MITRA) trial.
Chronic infectious diseases may run over many months and years, accompanied by only mild clinical signs and often without organ-specific symptoms.
People with any kind of immuno deficiency are more frequently affected by chronic infections.
History, physical examination, laboratory tests, microbiological tests and imaging methods may lead to an exact diagnosis.
The most important differential diagnosis are autoimmune diseases, amyloidosis and malignant lymphoma.
Background: We perform partial sphincterectomy during cataract surgery in cases with very small pupil (< 3 mm).
We assume that the small pupil is mainly due to a fibrosis ring of the sphincter muscle.
Trauma scores in emergency medicine quantitatively characterise the severity of trauma victims' injuries and physiologic derangements.
They are used to detect and assess patients and have applications in guiding patient care and early therapeutic decisions.
In the pre-clinical setting, an effective trauma index meets the following criteria: - It is highly reliable with regard to identifying high- and low-risk patients.
- It has high face-validity.
- It has high inter- and intra-rater reliability.
- It is easy to use and allows rapid, accurate measurements.
The most widely accepted injury severity index is probably the Injury Severity Score (ISS).
It is calculated as the sum of the squares of the three most severely injured body regions, and was originally developed as a means to standardise the description of injuries sustained in motor vehicle accidents.
The Trauma Score (TS) represents the gold standard of physiologic scoring of injury severity.
It summarises the numerical assessments of the central nervous and cardiopulmonary system functions.
The recently developed Mainz Emergency Evaluation Score (MEES) is based upon numerical specification of the vital signs, including a pain scale, and has been designed as a dynamic score.
Nevertheless, limitations of the established trauma score systems have been described.
Mortality and patient outcome do not strictly correlate with injury severity scoring.
In addition, intubated or paralysed patients were excluded from outcome studies since the scoring systems lacked options for evaluation of pathophysiological conditions after therapeutic interventions.
Thus, therapeutic efficacy could hardly be assessed, and subsequent scoring during time periods was impossible.
The accurate definition of comprehensive evaluation of a trauma victim is challenging, for example, "pain" as chosen in the MEES must be regarded as a highly desirable piece of information although its rating may prove difficult, especially when classifying unconscious patients.
Further criticisms of the above-mentioned trauma indices could include omission of the trauma victim's age, gender, pre-injury health status, or the influence of alcohol or additional medication.
Moreover, questioning the interrater reliability of injury severity scoring, a recent study revealed bias in assigning values to trauma patients: trained raters classified injury severity with significantly higher indices than less experienced researchers.
If trauma indices in pre-hospital emergency medicine were relied upon as the only means of evaluating a trauma patient and guiding therapeutic approaches, significant numbers of trauma victims requiring major interventions would be missed.
Resuscitative treatment regimens must not be based solely upon indices, since, e.g., in states of shock injury scores do not correlate with fluid resuscitative requirements.
Furthermore, a qualitative assignment of single vital-function parameters as crucial indices for a patient's condition never reflects the broad range of a patient's profile.
Many multiple-trauma patients do benefit from controlled ventilation in clinical experience even though pulse oximetry values are within the physiological range, and the administration of analgesics or even pre-hospital anaesthesia has often proved advantageous for trauma patients in the field.
Providing the opportunity of subsequent patient evaluation and the efficacy of acute care, the MEES has been developed as a dynamic scoring system.
This design is extremely desirable and must be regarded as an indispensible criterion for future scoring systems.
In view of the peculiarities of field emergency medicine, pre-hospital indices do have limitations.
The parameters "unknown patient", time pressure, unprecise measurements, lack of diagnostic facilities, incomplete evaluation, and limited statistical power cannot be eliminated.
Accurate prediction of outcome within early time-frames is therefore not possible.
Ossification of the Achilles tendon is the result of a traumatic, hypoxic injury of the tendon.
The usually asymptomatic ossification has a clinical importance only in case of a new trauma.
We report about a patient with an isolated fracture of the ossification without an accompanying rupture of the Achilles tendon.
Because of the radiologically "occult" fracture the diagnosis could only be verified by MRI.
With a conservative treatment without resection of the ossification we could reach painless recovery.
Hair problems are attacked at the levels of information supply, trichological competence and evidence based medical treatment.
The alopecias represent a major health care challenge, and the psychological significance of hair loss has only recently found appreciation in the medical community.
They may pose a vexing problem for non-specialized physicians, who tend to trivialize such complaints, although the patient's perception of abnormality determines whether or not advice is sought.
Perception of a hair problem is subject to sociocultural standards; films and advertisements help determine the threshold for "normality" and what is "healthy" and "beautiful", and the media provide an abundance of undiscriminating information with respect to hair care.
Patients with hair problems frequently consult the hairdresser prior to the medical specialist.
Thus additional areas of competence should be incorporated into the hairdresser's training qualifications.
Besides manual, creative and psychological aptitudes, "trichological competence" relating to the recognition of most important hair disorders, recognition of personal limitations and cooperation with the medical specialist are required.
To optimize the interaction between the physician, hairdressers and the media, more effective communication and public activities from the medical profession are desirable, with success depending on full identification of the set goals, qualification and adherance to the standards determined by the medical speciality.
We reexamined biopsy and resection specimens from seven patients with histologically established primary diagnosis of small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) which showed previously undetected adenocarcinomatous differentiation after chemotherapy.
Adenocarcinoma was diagnosed in the same part of the lung as was SCLC before treatment in five cases and in contralateral location in two.
Two tumors showed heterogeneous differentiation with small-cell and adenocarcinomatous components, and five had only adenocarcinoma.
The interval between histological evidence of SCLC and adenocarcinoma was 3 months-5 years.
From the specific findings in the respective patients we can offer two possible explanations for changing differentiation in SCLC after chemotherapy: (a) a primarily heterogeneously differentiated tumor with selection of adenocarcinomatous component under chemotherapy, and (b) an independently developed adenocarcinoma after successful chemotherapy of SCLC, as patients with treated SCLC are known to have an increased risk of non-SCLC.
However, therapy-induced alteration of differentiation seems much more unlikely.
These findings should be considered in diagnosis and therapy of SCLC to allow early and appropriate reaction to non-SCLC components.
Demonstration of BDV-specific serum antibodies, the isolation of BDV from cerebrospinal fluid of neuropsychiatric patients, and the recent demonstration of BDV antigen and BDV-RNA in human brain tissue strongly suggest that BDV can infect humans.
Isolation of BD virus from brain tissue is needed for final proof.
There is still great controversy about the question of whether BDV antigen, BDV-RNA or BDV can be detected in peripheral blood monocytes or not.
Overall, the question of pathogenicity of BDV infection for humans is wide open.
Investigations of human cerebrospinal fluid indicate that BDV might cause human lymphocytic meningoencephalitis and so-called symptomatic psychoses in rare cases.
Seroepidemiological studies suggest a widely non-specific but possibly pathogenic role of BDV in a spectrum of psychiatric disorders.
In a controlled prospective study we compared the efficacy of combined salt water bath and UVA/B phototherapy to a UVA/B mono-phototherapy in patients with subacute atopic dermatitis (AD).
The patients in the balneophototherapy group (n=16) were treated with baths containing 3-5% of the synthetic salt Psori-sal, followed immediately by UVA/B irradiation, while the other treatment arm (n=12) received UVA/B phototherapy alone.
After 20 treatments the balneophototherapy group showed a statistically significant (p<=0.0015) reduction of the SCORAD score from 69.5 before to 36.8 after therapy.
No statistically significant reduction in the SCORAD score could be observed in the UVA/B phototherapy group (50.6 before to 44.3 after therapy).
The cumulative UVB dose was significantly lower in the balneophototherapy group (0.9 J/cm2) as compared to the UVA/B monotherapy group (2.0 J/cm2).
Balneophototherapy was well tolerated by patients with atopic dermatitis and no side effects were observed.
We conclude that balneophototherapy expands the therapeutic options for patients with subacute atopic dermatitis.
Five percent of all human tumors are found in the head and neck region with an increasing rate.
Head and neck tumors are not only a significant problem because of the large number of people affected.
The functional and cosmetic disadvantages and stigmas related to the therapy influence the medical recommendations for each individual patient.
Background and purpose: Only a few clinical reports about the routine use of intravenous rt-PA for the treatment of acute ischemic stroke have been published.
Wether the perfusion of the extracranial parts of the internal carotid artery influences the outcome of the patients is still unknown, because the two major studies about systemic thrombolytic therapy with rt-PA in stroke (ECASS and NINDS) did not formally assess the status of the extracranial vessels.
Introduction: Chronic pain is an individually variable experience, incorporating physical, psychological and social dimensions.
Chronic pain occurs in a broad spectrum of severity; therefore, a grading procedure is of crucial importance in clinical research and in epidemiologic studies.
It is mandatory to differentiate between traumatic and atraumatic instability when treating shoulder instability.
The traumatic instability is characterized by secondary lesions (Bankart lesion, Hill-Sachs lesion, overstretching of the capsule), which are caused at the time of primary dislocation.
The quality of the capsule has to be considered in close relationship to the appearance of the Bankart lesion.
The stronger the capsule, the greater the external force has to be in order to surmount the resistance caused by the capsule.
The damage to the glenoid rim makes it possible to draw conclusions about the condition of the capsule.
In cases of atraumatic instability, secondary lesions are normally absent.
These instabilities are often caused by laxity of the capsule.
When stabilizing, a shoulder two criteria have to be taken into consideration: stability and function.
Reattachment of the labrum alone will not guarantee stability.
Additionally, the overstretched capsule has to be shortened or shifted.
Both criteria are decisive for the success of the stabilizing operation.
In benign goiter, thyroidectomy is only indicated in patients with nodular alterations of the complete thyroid gland.
There is no evidence indicating that total thyroidectomy could improve the postoperative results in patients with Graves' disease.
In Germany, thyroidectomy with cervicocentral lymph node dissection is the standard procedure for all differentiated thyroid carcinomas.
However, there are no data to prove that this approach is superior to less radical procedures.
Avoidance of reoperations and optimal conditions for effective postoperative radioiodine therapy are arguments for this aggressive strategy.
In patients with medullary carcinoma or with detected ret-proto-oncogene mutations, thyroidectomy with cervicocentral lymphadenectomy should be the initial operation.
The cervicolateral and mediastinal compartments should be dissected when clinically obvious lymph node metastases are present in patients with differentiated carcinomas.
In patients with medullary carcinomas, persistently increased calcitonin levels after the initial operation are sufficient indication for this procedure.
Thyroidectomy is an important part of the multimodal approach in patients with anaplastic carcinomas.
The operative technique of thyroidectomy is presented as well as the technique of cervical lymphadenectomy in consideration of the lymphatic drainage of the thyroid gland.
Tyrosinemia type I is an autosomal recessively inherited deficiency of fumarylacetoacetate hydrolase resulting in accumulation of tyrosin and its degradation products (succinylacetoacetone mainly).
Typical clinical features include liver and kidney failure as well as central nervous system involvement.
There are three main forms of the disease: the acute form with manifestation in newborn infants and the subacute and the chronic form in children older than one year of age.
Experimental data and clinical as well as postmortem experiences have indicated that subdural hematomas are less frequent in acceleration injuries in traffic accidents compared to falls or assaults.
The present report demonstrates that this does not hold true in the same way for bridging vein ruptures (one of the predominant causes for subdural bleedings).
Ruptures of these vessels without subdural bleeding (SDB) are only seldom mentioned in the literature.
However, if no SDB is present, no one will look for these structures.
In our institute a systematic analysis of the bridging veins in all cases of lethal blunt head injury is made: prior to the careful morphological preparation we investigate these vessels by radiographic imaging after filling with contrast medium.
6 car passengers (age between 4 and 31 years) which suffered a lethal head injury were examined in the last year.
2 victims had impressed fractures with cerebral compression injuries.
In 1 case the base of the skull was broken and in 3 cases no skull fracture was present; no serious focal brain injury had occured in these 4 cases, but 3 victims had signs of diffuse brain injury.
In 5 cases a direct impact of the head against the interior of the car was obvious.
In 5 cases ruptures of serveral bridging veins could be demonstrated.
In one case (survival for 3 days) a minor SDB (20 ml) was present and the ruptures had been closed by thrombosis; another victim died at the scene.
The other 3 victims survived between 4 and 15 hours without developing SDB and without closing of the ruptures by thrombosis.
This combination is surprising and shows that our knowledge concerning the relationship between bridging vein ruptures and SDB is restrictred.
The frequency of bridging vein lesions in severe head injuries is likely underestimated in the clinical as well as in the postmortem literature.
A rapid increase of intracranial pressure after the accident resulting in a collapse of the cerebral circulation is probably responsible for the absence of the SDB in the presented cases.
Implantable hearing aids can form the basis of new surgical techniques for dealing with hearing problems originating in the inner ear, provided they are fully implantable.
Accordingly, a comprehensive, interdisciplinary, combined project was initiated at the ENT clinic of the University of Tübingen which was to conclude with operations to improve hearing via fully implantable hearing aids.
A novel electromechanical transducer for implantable hearing aids based on the piezoelectric principle is described.
Unlike the piezoelectric transducers reported so far, this transducer does not rely on the bimorphic principle but on a circle-shaped, heteromorphic combination system consisting of a piezoceramic disc and metal membrane.
The transducer can be hermetically sealed and is designed for implantation into the mastoid.
Transfer of mechanical oscillations to an ossicle in the middle ear is effected by a directly fixed coupling rod or via suitable coupling elements.
The transducer is highly tuned with a resonance frequency at the upper end of the spectral transfer range (greater than 10 kHz).
Below this resonance and down to low frequencies, the frequency response of elongation is smooth with amplitudes of around 20 nm.
At low and middle frequencies of up to 1 kHz, these vibration amplitudes correspond to sound-pressure levels of around 90 dB SPL.
At higher frequencies of up to 10 kHz, the output level increases to about 130 dB SPL.
Nonlinear distortions are also very small at the highest levels (less than 0.1%) throughout the whole transfer range.
Electric power consumption at maximum levels is in the range of a few microwatts and is therefore significantly lower than that of electromagnetic systems.
Particularly, this makes it possible to use the transducer in fully implantable hearing aids for rehabilitation of sensorineural hearing loss.
In craniomaxillofacial traumatology, surgical oncology and craniomaxillofacial reconstruction, a surgeon's aim may interfere with the prechiasmatic visual pathway.
Precise concepts and therapeutic strategies are mandatory to detect and deal with anterior visual pathway disorders.
In order to develop these strategies, knowledge of the pathomechanisms of potential optic nerve trauma, primary radiological investigations, and further diagnostic measures are important.
Due to the difficulties in neuroophthalmological testing of visual pathway functioning in severely injured patients or even during craniomaxillofacial reconstructions, we established flash-evoked visual potentials (VEP) and the electroretinogram (ERG) as reliable electrophysiological methods to gather specific information as to whether the visual pathway function is intact, even if pathological, but still present or absent.
Case reports show that subjectively or objectively confirmed unilateral amaurosis does not neccessarily mean irreversible vision loss.
The electrophysiological evaluation together with multiplanar computer tomography (CT) are important for the immediate identification of optic nerve trauma.
The results of this evaluation will provide the diagnostic information on whether surgical intervention and/or conservative therapy is required to prevent secondary optic nerve damage.
The conservative therapy of choice for the treatment of traumatic optic nerve lesions is the methylprednisolone-megadosis regimen (30 mg Urbason/kg bodyweight i.v.
and 5.4 mg/kg bodyweight/h i.v.
for the following 47 h).
Surgical therapy involves decompression of the orbital compartment in case of retrobulbar hematoma or decompression of the intracanalicular part of the optic nerve in the traumatized optic canal or posterior orbit as confirmed by CT.
Prospective analysis of our trauma patients and the international literature on traumatic optic nerve lesions show that the time factor in when to start therapy has been greatly underestimated.
To fulfill modern treatment concepts in craniomaxillofacial surgery, sound diagnostic and therapeutic knowledge on the maintenance of visual pathway function is required.
In the presence of preterm labor, premature rupture of the membranes, and preterm maturation of the cervix, there is an increased risk for premature birth.
There is a combination of endocrine as well as paracrine regulations which are responsible for the events associated with preterm labor, maturation of the cervix, and preterm rupture of the membranes.
Apart from classical hormones, various pro-inflammatory cytokines act as mediators.
At the fetal-maternal interface - which is formed by the placenta with the chorioamnion on the fetal side and the decidua, myometrium, and the cervix on the maternal side - an intense interaction between endocrine and immunological reactions has been observed.
Melatonin (N-acetyl-5-methoxytryptamine) is a hormone with multiple functions in humans, produced by the pineal gland and stimulated by -adrenergic receptors.
Serum melatonin levels exhibit a circadian rhythm with low levels during the day, rise in the evening and maximum levels at night between 2 and 4 a.m.. Melatonin participates in the regulation of several physiological processes such as seasonal biological rhythm, daily sleep induction, aging and modulation of immunobiological defence reactions.
Furthermore, melatonin has a highly lipophilic molecular structure facilitating penetration of cell membranes and serving as an extra- and intracellular free radical scavenger.
Melatonin seems to quench mainly hydroxyl radicals, the most damaging of all free radicals.
Melatonin may play a role in the etiology and treatment of several dermatoses e.g.
atopic eczema, psoriasis and malignant melanoma.
The influence of melatonin on hair growth is another aspect.
Topical application of melatonin inhibits the development of UV-erythema.
Penetration through skin after topical application and oral bioavailability auxit further investigations on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic actions of melatonin.
Lung dust analyses were performed on tumor-free lung tissue from surgical samples of 28 carcinoid tumors.
The measured levels in one surgical sample may easily be correlated with the increased asbestos load of the lung due to the patients' occupation as stone mason.
No evidence supporting the correlation of increased chronic asbestos load of the lungs and the development of typical carcinoid tumors of the lung was found.
Analysis of 147 repeat arthroscopies of the knee performed at the Department of Surgery at the Herz-Jesu Krankenhaus, Fulda, from 1990 to 1995, showed that meniscal lesions were the most common (n = 89, 60.5%).
The majority of meniscal lesions (n = 45, 50.6%) occurred in menisci that had already been partially resected.
The most common localization was the posterior third of the medial meniscus in ipsilateral lesions.
Conversely, contralateral meniscal injuries were only documented in 18 cases (20.2%), while de-novo lesions occurred in 29 cases (29.2%).
A coincidence of meniscal injury with first- or second-grade cartilage damage was documented  in 35 patients (39.3%), whereas 54 patients (60.7%) had normal intra-articular cartilage.
Cartilage damage was most frequent in patients who had previously undergone partial meniscectomy.
The most common therapeutic consequences were partial meniscectomy and cartilage-shaving.
Concerning patients' postoperative satisfaction and evaluation of the results by OAK score, the majority of patients attained significant improvement in function (65.2%) and showed good or excellent outcome in the OAK score (88.8%).
Patients without accompanying cartilage damage had better results in comparison to patients with cartilage damage in the affected area (p < 0.05).
In conclusion, in patients with positive meniscal signs and a history of previous meniscal surgery, repeat arthroscopy is generally and early indicated and can be recommended as a valid method to assess cartilage damage objectively.
However, patients with cartilage damage do not have the same benefit.
The present study examined the effectiveness of combined dermatological and behavioural medicine therapy on the skin status and disease-specific stress of eighty-six patients with psoriasis and fifty-eight patients with atopic dermatitis who were hospitalized in the PsoriSol Clinic, Hersbruck, Germany.
In addition to receiving instruction about their stain disease, the patients were offered, practice in relaxation techniques, social contacts and scratching control as well as individual psychological counselling.
The clinical change was assessed by PASI and SCORAD, respectively.
The Marburg questionnaire for coping with skin diseases (MHF) and a questionnaire for health-related control attributes (GKÜ-S) served as psychometric measures.
Patients showed significant improvement in skin status and psychosocial parameters in pre-post comparison.
Social fears, avoidance and helplessness were reduced by significant improvement of the emotional status in both groups.
Patients with psoriasis also showed an increase in internal control attributes.
Dermatological treatment combined with behavioural medicine therapy can be considered an effective method in patients with atopic dermatitis and psoriasis.
Treatment of chronic cancer pain with strong opioids is indicated in about 60-70 % of patients.
Surprisingly, these very potent analgesics are prescribed with great reservations in many countries, including Germany.
The aim of our investigation was to analyse the supply of opioid analgesics to outpatients with cancer pain in the region of Hannover, which has about 1.1 million inhabitants.
In Germany special prescription forms, i. e. triplicate forms, have to be used for the prescription of strong opioids.
At the time when our investigation took place prescriptions for outpatients had to be renewed every 7 days.
For two observation periods of 6 months lasting from January to June 1988 and from January to June 1991 all of the opioid prescription forms that had been issued by general practitioners for clients of the AOK Hannover (one of the major medical insurance companies) were evaluated.
The reasons for prescribing opioids were analysed by recording the diagnosis.
The individual treatment period on an outpatient basis during these 6 months was determined, excluding, e. g. days of hospitalization.
During the two observation periods only 16.2 % (1988) and 19.5 % (1991) of the practitioners in the region of Hannover prescribed strong opioids to outpatients.
The majority of the practitioners consisted of general practitioners and specialists in internal medicine.
Although these two groups mainly function as family doctors who are responsible for the basic therapeutical needs of their patients, only 22.6-33.8 % of these doctors prescribed opioids to outpatients.
In two-thirds of the patients, cancer pain was the reason for prescribing the drug.
The total number of patients with a prescription for cancer pain was 164 in 1988 and 196 in 1991.
Altogether 1002 prescription forms in 1988 and 1065 prescription forms in 1991 had been issued for these patients.
Applied to the individual treatment period as an outpatient, only 36.0 % of the patients in 1988 and 32.1 % in 1991 received a regular prescription of strong opioids every 7 days.
The mean time interval between separate prescriptions was 16.8  +/-  25.4 days in 1988 and 19.4  +/-  29.1 days in 1991.
Accordingly, the majority of patients with chronic cancer pain had been supplied with opioids only occasionally.
Our data indicate a significant undertreatment of outpatients suffering from cancer pain.
Taking into account the estimated total number of patients suffering from cancer, only 14.5 % (1988) and 19.0 % (1991) of all outpatients in need of strong opioids were supplied sufficiently with those analgesics.
Comparing the results from the observation period in 1988 with the results from 1991 it becomes obvious that the situation has not changed.
There are different reasons for the insufficiency of opioid treatment: many physicians as well as their patients are still afraid of the side effects of strong opioids.
Therefore, it is necessary to improve education concerning this issue.
The legal restrictions on the use of narcotics and their complexity are another important reason for doctors not to prescribe strong opioids.
In 1993 the regulations were simplified; nevertheless, this has not led to a profound change in the attitude of the prescribing practitioners.
Thus, further changes in legislation seem to be necessary so that the requirements for the prescription of strong opioids do not differ from other drugs.
The long-term functional results of acetabular fractures are assessed in terms of the corresponding criteria of Merle-D'Aubigné and Postel (pain, mobility, walking).
Other essential criteria include the quality of reduction and the radiological appearance.
A 53 year old female patient developed a keratoacanthoma, present on the left side of her nose for two months.
After repeated unsuccessful trials with cryotherapy, she was treated with intralesional injection of methotrexate performed twice with a weekly internal.
This led to complete resolution within 5 weeks.
Although controlled studies on the effect of methotrexate in keratoacanthoma are not available, the rapid regression and the good cosmetic result suggest that this therapy may play a beneficial role in treating these lesions especially in problem locations.
Between January 1995 and June 1996, 24 inpatients at our hospital (mean age 55.6 years) were treated with electroconvulsive therapy (ECT).
Clinical improvement was observed in 80% of the patients, including those without risk factors (NRG, n=16), as well as those with concomitant cardiovascular diseases (RG, n=8).
During a mean period of observation of 224 days after the end of ECT 7 patients (35%) relapsed.
The rate of relapse was higher in RG than in NRG patients (57.1 vs 23.1%).
In all cases ECT was well tolerated; 285 applications of ECT did not result in mortality or persistent morbidity.
However, RG patients may be at increased risk for the development of minor cardiovascular complications, which were noted in three RG patients (37.5%), but only in one patient (6.2%) in the NRG (Fisher's test, P=0.09).
Taken together, our results demonstrate that ECT is a safe treatment regimen for depression even in medically ill patients of old age.
On 21.11.1811 the poet Heinrich von Kleist and his companion Henriette Vogel were found dead in a small hollow by the Wannsee.
The autopsy revealed that Kleist was shot in the mouth and Vogel died from a close-contact shot to the chest.
The tragedy, which was reflected in letters and documents ended in a suicide pact.
The conclusions of the pathologists were influenced by current medical opinions which were based on interpretations of the ancient humoral doctrine of Hypocrates.
Subjective and objective opinions were mixed together.
Some forensic and historical aspects of this suicide pact are highlighted.
There is no doubt that a single emergency phone number is desirable, but in contrast to other countries, in Germany different emergency phone numbers and dispatching centers exist for the fire brigade (FB), the emergency medical service system (EMS), and the general practitioners' emergency service (GPS).
Due to this fact, valuable time is often wasted by connecting or transferring emergency calls from one dispatching center to another.
The purpose of this study was to analyse all calls received by the different dispatching centers in the city and county area of Mainz with respect to total number, fraction of emergency calls, and specificity.
Further, the total number of calls potentially referring to a hypothetic single dispatching center with a general emergency phone number (112) was calculated.
During a 4-month period, all telephone calls were registered and related to day, time, and origin of the call (city or county) and classified as non-urgent or emergency calls, calls appropriate to the dispatching center dialed, emergency calls to be transferred, or unspecific calls.
A total of 80 987 calls were received (city area 84.3%, county area 15.7%), most of them directed to the FB of Mainz (33 086).
The EMS dispatching center received 31 286 calls, the five GPS-centers 15 256 calls; 1359 emergency calls that were directed to the police or FB needed transfer to the EMS.
During weekdays the EMS and FB received the most calls, with a reduced frequency on Saturdays and Sundays (Table 2).
Nevertheless, the highest total numbers of calls were received on Saturdays due to multiple calls directed to the GPS.
The FB had the highest specificity of calls; more than 50% of the calls to the GPS were unspecific (Fig.
Of all calls, 4.37% were classified as emergency calls; two-thirds of these came from the area of Mainz during the daytime.
During off-duty hours of the GPS in the city, 51% of the emergency calls reached the EMS directly; 49% had to be connected by the police or FB.
During duty hours of the GPS, the fraction of calls directed to the EMS decreased significantly to 35%.
During duty hours of the GPS centers in the county area, only 14% of the urgent emergency calls reached the EMS dispatcher directly (Fig.
Compared to the multiple-center mode, a hypothetic single dispatching center for all systems would probably be followed by a slight increase in total number of calls due to the fact that the GPS numbers would be answered 24 h a day, but there would be only minimal differences in the total number received on most days; only on Sundays would a decrease be expected.
The EMS area of Mainz, with a total of 13 different telephone numbers for 7 dispatching centers, can be regarded as typical of the German situation.
The high number of emergency calls to be transferred (up to 86% under special circumstances) demonstrated that this weak point in the German EMS system must be eliminated by introducing a single emergency number.
This should occur when a Europe-wide three-digit number "112" will be instituted, probably in 1995.
Additionally, the continued existence of 5- or 10-digit telephone numbers for non-urgent calls may be useful for allowing non-verbal differentiation of calls.
In any case, all telephone numbers, including the latter calls, have to enter one dispatching center.
The main advantage of a single dispatching center would be avoidance of the time-consuming transfer of emergency calls from one dispatching center to the other.
In addition to elevated intraocular pressure, a compromised ocular blood supply has been implicated in the pathogenesis of primary open-angle glaucoma (PCOG).
The ongoing change of demographic and economic structures does not undermine employment (as many believe), but this change indeed induces problems with the mandatory old-age security system in Germany.
This paper discusses some popular reform proposals and concludes with another proposal which takes into account economic incentives.
Especially the gerontological aim of a longer lifetime employment is adressed.
Epidemiologic data suggest that an underlying genetic disposition can be detected in up to 10 % of all colorectal cancer patients and autosomal dominantly inherited hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer (HNPCC) is the entity most frequently identified.
It was described first by A. Warthin in 1895 in "Family G" and is characterized by a predisposition to an early onset of colorectal cancer and other intestinal or genitourinary tumors.
We report the case of a 61-year-old woman with five different cancers.
Although the strict Amsterdam Criteria were not fulfilled, molecular analysis revealed HNPCC; further genetic testing in the family confirmed that the 36-year-old and so far healthy son had inherited the germline mutation of his affected mother.
Genetic testing in clinically suspected HNPCC cases is recommended for patients with colorectal cancer meeting the Amsterdam Criteria.
In patients meeting one of Bethesda Criteria 2-7 without meeting the Amsterdam Criteria, germline mutation analysis is recommended only in MSI-positive tumors.
Introduction: The Pura-Vario stent features 2 newly designed "bridging segments" for enhanced longitudinal flexibility, in order to allow easier and safer stent implantation.
The median palatine suture has long been regarded as having the greatest resistance to dilatation of the maxilla.
In 1984 Glassman [3] presented a conservative-surgical method of division of the palatineal suture in which only the lateral and anterior support of the maxilla is debilitated surgically.
An orthodontic apparatus cemented in place preoperatively is already used intraoperatively for dilatation of the maxilla.
In the period from 1991 to 1997, 16 patients with a leptomaxilla and various dysnathic findings have been operated on at our clinic by the method described by Glassman [3].
Sometimes the maxilla was dilated intraoperatively using the apparatus cemented in place by the method of Derichsweiler and dilatation was continued postoperatively until the described result was achieved.
After successful dilatation of the maxilla and a stabilizing phase, a mono- or bimaxillary operation was performed.
The use of this method led to the desired result in 15 patients.
Dilatation of the maxilla was objectivized by determining the pre- and postoperative width of the anterior and posterior dental arch using models and X-ray of the occlusal overlay of the maxilla.
In one patient who was operated on at the age of 38 years, a fracture of the alveolar process of the maxilla occurred unilaterally due to the completed ossification of the median palatine suture.
The method of surgically aided dilatation of the maxilla at the level of Le Fort I plane is suitable for patients up to the age of 30.
In older patients, the median palatine suture should be transsected as well.
Osteoarthritis is the most common joint disease.
In addition to known risk factors e.g.
genetics, age and hormonal status it has been suggested that chronic-repetitive micro- and substantial (macro-) injury may play an important pathogenetic role.
In a longitudinal case-study we examined Judo-players for clinical and radiological changes of the finger joints over the course of 16 years.
Arteriovenous fistula is a rare complication following vascular trauma.
We report a case of an arteriovenous fistula of the neck after a penetrating injury.
The only presenting symptoms were a thrill and a machinery murmur.
There were no signs of cardiac insufficiency.
Duplex scan and arteriography detected an arteriovenous fistula between the superior thyroid artery and the superior thyroid vein.
Treatment should be carried out as soon as possible, and is then usually simple and successful.
Pathogenesis: Arteriosclerosis and Mönckeberg's disease mediasclerosis are vascular diseases associated with calcification of the artery wall.
While mediasclerosis in most cases develops in type 2 diabetic patients, arteriosclerosis is the result of a combination of different vascular risk factors.
Möncheberg's mediasclerosis typically involves the tunica media, whereas arteriosclerosis-associated calcifications primarily involve the intima.
The new technique of non-invasive magnetic resonance (MR) sialography was evaluated for normal and various pathologic conditions of the parotid gland.
Ten volunteers and 15 patients with various symptomatic diseases of the parotid gland were tested in the present study.
Diseases included pleomorphic adenoma, cystadenolymphoma, carcinoma ex pleomorphic adenoma, ductal carcinoma, adenoid cystic carcinoma, lymphoepithelial carcinoma, non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, sialolithiasis, sialadenitis, Heerfordt's syndrome and congenital duct ectasies.
In addition to the usually performed T1 and T2 cross-sectional sequences a heavily weighted T2 sequence (TR 3600, TE 800) was performed and allowed depiction of a fluid-filled parotid duct.
Results showed that the main parotid and primary branching ducts were depicted reliably in all normal cases and all patients, except one with sicca syndrome.
Pathological conditions such as duct dilatations, duct strictures, obstructing duct calculus and irregular shapes and courses of the ductal system were demonstrable.
While X-ray sialography obtained a higher resolution, only MR sialography was able to depict dilated ducts proximal from a complete obstruction, as well as all ductal cysts.
Our findings show that MR sialography can be applied successfully to investigations of the parotid gland system.
There have been no contraindications or complications to date because MR sialography is non-invasive.
The technique will also allow the salivary ducts and lesions to be differentiated from the course of the facial nerve.
Substantial improvement in conformal radiotherapy is possible using modulated irradiation fields.
Such modulated fields may be generated even with conventional accelerators by means of individual metal compensators or with the recently available dynamic multileaf collimators (MLC).
For treatment planning a new kind of planning program is required that can calculate the 2 D-intensity matrices for each photon field.
At the German Cancer Research Center (Deutsches Krebsforschungszentrum) such a program has been developed under the name of "KonRad" (Conformal Radiotherapy).
Although it is an independent application, it is proposed for clinical usage to supplement a planning system that is already present.
So-called inverse planning differs from conventional 3 D planning, as the trial-and-error approach for finding good field parameters is nearly completely avoided.
Instead, the radio-oncologist is given the chance directly to specify medically oriented criteria like the prescription dose in the target volume, maximal tolerance dose values for each organ at risk and their weighting factors.
In addition, the so-called DVH optimization allows aimed, partial overdosage, especially in parallelly structured organs in order to obtain better overall planning results.
The Problem Six-year old boy with unilateral Type-II cleftfoot, oligodactyly and clinodactyly of the 2nd toe.
The marked splaying of the forefoot not only causes painful pressure points but also problems with fitting of shoes.
A child with typical signs of the cat eye-syndrom except the characteristic feature of a cat eye is reported.
In a chromosome analysis (47,xx, + mar de novo) an extrachromosome was detected.
Using fluorescence in situ hybridization the supernumerary marker refered to chromosome 22.
In the literature only a few cases show all the characteristic features of cat eye syndrome.
However, there are only two case reports of children without any ocular alterations.
The great variability in the phenotype probably depends on different sizes of the marker chromosome or asymmetric breakpoints on the long arm of chromosome 22.
According to new literature reports there is no correlation between the phenotypic variability and the size of the marker chromosome.
Probably the degree of severity is correlated with the percentage of the patients lymphocytes that contain the extrachromosome.
Introduction: Children with ALL frequently present with skeletal pain at the time of diagnosis.
We retrospectively analyzed the incidence and clinical features of skeletal pain and the correlation between pain and radiographic findings.
Objective: Elevated levels of interleukin-1 (IL-1) and Interleukin-6 (IL-6) have been reported after cardiac operation, during inflammatory process and cardiac allograft rejection.
Although several groups proved the evidence of a negative inotropic effect, the actual mechanism is not completely understood.
Speaking generally it is possible that low molecular weight proteins are capable of altering myocardial contractility on the level of the contractile apparatus.
Therefore this study analyzes whether IL-1 and/or IL-6 influence myocardial contractility on the level of the contractile apparatus.
Methods: During aorto-coronary bypass operation, human muscle fibers were excised (n=32) and skinned using Triton-X-100.
The experimental skinned fiber model excludes membrane-related factors such as receptor activation and provides direct examination of the contractile apparatus itself.
Different concentrations of IL-1 and IL-6 were applied (pIL-1/IL-6 1-2x10-5-10-11M).
Force generation, calcium sensitivity, and velocity of force generation and relaxation were measured.
(Experiments were carried out at optimal length, bath temperature 23 °C, and isometric conditions.)
Results: None of the skinned muscle preparations of the human myocardium showed under the given experimental setup a significant change in contractility and relaxation after exposure to IL-1 and IL-6.
Despite using nonphysiologic concentrations of IL-1 and IL-6 (pIL-1/IL-6 10-5M) no significant effect occurred.
Furthermore no difference in calcium-sensitivity of the contractile proteins following addition of IL-1 and IL-6 could be observed.
Conclusions: Thus, there is no experimental evidence for direct modulation of the contractile apparatus by IL-1 or IL-6.
Given these results it is possible to exclude some potentially negative inotropic cascades that are mediated on the level of the contractile apparatus as the molecular mechanism.
These data show that therapies which support myocardial contractility during sepsis by stimulation of the contractile proteins do not seem to be very promising.
Indications for intercarpal and radiocarpal resectionarthroplasty and fusions are osteoarthritis, KIEHNBÖCK'S disease, rheumatoid arthritis and several posttraumatic disorders of the wrist joint.
The resection of carpal bones leads to severe instability patterns of the wrist.
In conclusion we recommend resection-arthroplasty just for treatment of the thumb carpo-metacarpal osteoarthritis.
Implant resection arthroplasty of the lunate and scaphoid or total wrist implants are still causing multiple problems regarding heavy load.
Therefore this implants should be confined to rheumatoid patients.
Of the limited carpal arthrodeses the scaphotrapezium-trapezoid arthrodeses is the most frequent performed procedure.
It can be indicated for STT-osteoarthritis, KIEHNBÖCK's disease, scapho-lunate instability and scaphoid pseudarthrosis if other surgical procedures had failed presuming there are no signs of arthrosis in the radiocarpal joint.
Persisting pain especially in heavy work is quite frequent after limited arthrodesis but can be greatly releaved by simultaneous wrist denervation.
In advanced cases of osteoarthritis total wrist arthrodesis is still the best choice for the patient.
Increasing numbers of monitors at the anaesthesiologist's workplace, providing more than 20 different parameters of the patient's condition, have already made it impossible to record all the values in a handwritten form.
Consequently, this most common method of record-keeping must be incomplete and inaccurate.
In recent years computerised data-acquisition systems have been introduced into clinical practice in order to produce more reliable records.
But after a 7-year experience in the use of such a system in cardiac anaesthesia, we have recognised certain problems that remain to be solved before automated record-keeping will achieve wider acceptance.
The first is the handling problem, which was discussed in a previous paper [11].
The second major problem is the appearance of artifacts, caused mainly by mechanical manipulations during the operation.
In this paper, 300 courses of anaesthesia that were recorded on-line during different cardiac surgery procedures were examined and the incidence as well as the kind of artifacts occurring were evaluated.
Algorithms were developed for each haemodynamic parameter to suppress these artifacts automatically by a subsequent analysing process; the efficiency of that "artifact filter" was validated in 35 of the 300 cases.
Based on more than 30,000 values for each parameter, the incidence of artifacts was 3%-7%.
However, only 0.1%-0.5% of the artifacts could not be eliminated by the filter.
The method described here provided acceptable graphic printouts of the most important haemodynamic parameters (Figs.
1b and 2b) and would also be suitable to serve as an input filter for automatically running anaesthesia data-examination processes, which are currently being developed in our clinic.
Extracorporal shock wave application (ESWA) has been used in the treatment of stones located in kidneys, bile, pancreas and the glandula parotis.
In the last 2 years several studies have shown the benefit of the ESWA on the treatment of soft tissue disorders.
The aim of this study was to explore the effect of high energy extracorporal shock waves in patients with painful calcaneus spurs.
83 patients who underwent medicophysical treatment without benefit were treated with 3000 impulses of 0,30 mJ/mm2.
Follow-ups after 12 weeks and 12 months showed that 51 of 83 patients became pain-free and 20 patients improved from the treatment.
The results are showing the benefit of the high energy extracorporal shock wave application in the treatment of chronic plantar fasciitis.
In developed countries, medical conditions, rather than lack of food, are the main contributors to malnutrition.
Undernutrition is especially common in older persons, occuring in 5-12 % of community-dwelling older persons, in 30-61 % of hospitalized older persons, and in 40-85 % of persons in long-term care institutions.
The multi-factorial nature of undernutrition in the elderly forces a structured differential diagnostic approach to determine underlying causes.
Heightened physician awareness of nutritional problems and prompt risk assessment is imperative to prevent the sequalae of undernutrition.
This structured approach to the differential diagnosis is essential to evaluate potentially reversible causes of malnutrition.
The number of surgical procedures performed as day surgery has significantly increased in recent years.
Therefore, a safe and short postoperative recovery period has become increasingly important.
The aim of the present study was to investigate perioperative cognitive and physiological function after oral premedication with low-dose midazolam (3.75 mg), especially during the postoperative period.
Heart failure may be defined as a reduced physical per-formance frequently caused by a defect in myocardial contraction.
According to the New York Heart Association, the severity of heart failure is classified into four grades (NYHA I-IV).
Predominantly underlying causes are coronary artery disease, hypertension, cardiomyopathies and valvular heart diseases.
Psychic disorders were studied with a naturalistic design in 125 consecutive patients of a medical-geriatric department in a general hospital.
Based on the clinical examination and the values of the Mini-Mental-State-Examination (2), 51 patients were classified as unable for diagnostic procedures concerning psychic state.
The other 74 patients underwent these diagnostic procedures including clinical investigation and three screening-scales (Geriatric Depression Scale (11); Hospital Anxiety and Depression-Scale (4)).
If these examinations led to the suspicion that a patient suffered from a psychic disorder, an interview was performed by a psychotherapist with experience in gerontopsychosomatic treatment and information was collected from the medical and nursing staff.
Dementia was detected or excluded by neuropsychological tests.
Psychic disorders were found in 41 patients, mostly adaptation disorders and depressions, the disorder was estimated to be relevant for the whole hospital therapy.
The screening instruments turned out to be reliable, so they can be recommended for further use.
Difficult to answer remains the question, how the treatment of the psychic disorders - in our sample necessary for each 5th to 6th patient - can be implemented in a medical-geriatric department.
Based on the "Trauma Registry" of the German Society of Trauma Surgery, an interclinical quality management (QM) system was implemented.
The principles of the QM system as well as the differences in the quality of outcome and treatment are presented.
The analysis uses the data on 2,069 severely injured (ISS = 22  +/-  14) patients from 20 hospitals collected prospectively and anonymously between 2/93 and 12/97.
Outcome quality was analyzed by the TRISS method and Z-statistics.
The Z-value of the whole series was -0.24.
There were three hospitals with more than 150 patients that had a Ps value calculated by the TRISS method.
Clinic A had a good (-2.49), clinic B an average (-0.3) and clinic C (3.62) an adverse Z-value.
The assessment of treatment quality was performed by criteria concerning both preclinical and acute clinical phases.
Clinic C had a prolonged preclinical treatment time (90 min vs 62 min in clinic A) for severely injured (ISS > 15) patients.
At the same time, the preclinical intubation rate for severe thoracic trauma (AIS > 3) was lower (44 %) in clinic C than in A (62 %).
With 14 min clinic A had the shortest time until basic radiological and ultrasound diagnostics were completed (X-rays of chest and pelvis and abdominal ultrasound) in cases of severe blunt trauma (ISS > 15), compared to 54 min in clinic B or 31 min in clinic C. Also, cranial computed tomography for severe traumatic brain injury (GCS < 9) was applied significantly faster in clinic A (after 36 min) than in clinic C (after 62 min).
Delayed diagnoses were defined as the difference between the ISS at discharge and the ISS at completion of diagnostics in the emergency department; this criterion was met best by clinic A with an ISS difference of two patients compared to five in clinic B and four in clinic C.
For invasive catheter procedures both ionic and nonionic contrast media (CM) with excellent tolerability are available.
The governing practical factors for CM are X-ray opacity and biocompatibility.
Tolerability of a contrast medium is governed among its physical properties by its viscosity, osmolality, and ionic concentration.
In Germany the nonionic CM are currently preferred.
Because of its low thrombotic complications, the ionic CM Ioxaglat is an important alternative in high risk interventions.
In patients with known CM incompatibility, the prophylactic application of H1-receptor antagonists and corticosteroids allows catheterization safely without complications.
In impaired renal function, hydration is the most effective prophylactic measure to be taken.
Background: In the present study we evaluated the influence of topical miotics on intraocular pressure and the blood-aqueous barrier after uncomplicated phacoemulsification and PC-IOL implantation.
A judgement on the patient's quality of life cannot be based solely on the information about the clinical severity of a disease.
Very often there is no correlation between these parameters.
It is necessary to assess the quality of life by a health status question-naire since non-life threatening diseases common in dermatology influence the quality of life very much.
The most frequently used questionnaires are the SF-36 and the Nottingham Health Profile.
However, these forms do not evaluate all dermatologic patients adequately.
Therefore specific tools such as the DLQI (Dermatology Life Quality Index) and Skindex have been established for dermatology.
Further disease-specific questionnaires have been created to mea-sure time related changes in dermatological patients.
We surgically treated twenty patients with axillary hyperhidrosis by liposuction using tumescent regional anesthesia.
After a description of the surgical technique results are presented.
Except for trivial hematomas, no complications were seen.
Every patient noted a significant reduction of sweat gland activity in the follow up period.
Long-term results remain to be seen.
The value of cytogenetics performed simultaneously with histopathology was evaluated in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS).
Clonal karyotype changes of the bone marrow cells supporting the histological diagnosis were found in 38/69 cases (55 %).
The chromosome aberrations, especially complex changes, were significantly correlated to distinct histopathological findings such as atypias of the haematopoietic cell lines and myelosclerosis.
Complex karyotype changes were further associated with short survival of the MDS patients.
Our results demonstrate that cytogenetic analyses are helpful in supplementing the histopathological diagnoses.
Recent developments in molecular cytogenetics even allow the detection of chromosomal aberrations in non-dividing cells from cytological preparations or tissue sections which may become available for routine diagnosis.
In the course of 1 year, Clostridium difficile-associated diarrhea, which may lead to pseudomembranous colitis and therefore may be very harmful in frail elderly people, was diagnosed in six patients of a geriatric clinic.
The disease is associated with antibiotic therapy, due to an overgrowth of the intestinal flora with Clostridium difficile.
Symptoms varied from a state of asymptomatic carriage or benign diarrhea to acute stages of the disease with severe diarrhea, abdominal pain, fever and acute phase response.
Diagnosis of Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea was established when, in addition to typical clinical symptoms, a toxin-positive stool specimen was found.
Oral vancomycin was effective in all cases, leading to a stop in the diarrhea and an amelioration of systemic inflammatory parameters.
According to recent results, in order to prevent the induction of vancomycin-resistance and in view of higher treatment costs, metronidazole is considered as the drug of choice in mildly and moderately ill patients.
This report analyzes 46 cases of personnel-to-patient transmissions of hepatitis B (HB), hepatitis C (HC) and HIV in health care settings.
Similar circumstances were found for transmission of HB (40 cases, 404 infected patients), HC (4 cases, 224 infected patients) and HIV (2 cases, 7 infected patients).
Cases with the highest number of transmissions (one anesthesiologist with 217 HC transmissions, and one EEG technologist with 75 HB transmissions) were attributed to poor infection control practices.
As long as infected health care workers (HCW) adhere to general infection control measures, a risk for transmission to patients exists only from infected surgeons who perform'xposure-prone invasive procedures'.
Whether changes in duties of infected HCW are necessary should be decided on an individual basis.
Often, the infected personnel were assumed to have acquired the disease occupationally.
Medical practices and devices bearing a risk of infection should constantly be reviewed with regard to risk for patients and personnel.
The healthy newborn infant also has the right to optimal monitoring in order to detect any disturbance in postnatal adaptation as early as possible.
The introduction of painless, simple, and yet reliable methods, e.g., pulse oximetry and transcutaneous bilirubin screening, has considerably improved the situation for obstetricians and midwives.
Injuries of the spine in children rarely occur.
They amount to about 0.2 % of all fractures and dislocation and to 1.5 to 3 % of all lesions of the spine.
The younger an injured child is, the more likely it has sustained a lesion of the upper cervical spine.
This spinal segment in comparison to adults is concerned more often and accounts for 50 % of all C-spine injuries.
Important differences between the adult spine and the spine in the child disappear with the age of 10 years.
Later diagnostics, classification and treatment correspond widely with the principles valid in adults.
The knowledge of the normal shape and development of the spine are crucial in avoiding misinterpretations of X-ray films.
Typical examples include the confusion of synchondrosis with fractures or of subluxations of the atlas and the C2/C3 segment with "true" instabilities.
Relevant lesions always are accompanied by clear clinical symptoms.
Specific injuries of the growing axial skeleton are lesions of the cartilaginous endplates and "fractures" of the synchondrosis.
Although a variety of histologic entities were described, primary tumors of the trachea are rare findings.
Over a period of 20 years, 30 patients underwent 31 tracheal resections in two hospitals for thoracic surgery.
Among them 4 patients had thyroid carcinoma involving the trachea.
In these patients a strumectomy combined with tracheal resection was performed.
One re-operation for erosion bleeding of the innominate artery on the 8th postoperative day was successfully performed.
All patients showed excellent long-term survival.
Principles, methods and results of percutaneous therapy in acute and chronic vascular alterations of the subclavian artery and its branches.
Speculations concerning a possible association between temporomandibular disorders (TMDs) and ear symptoms of otalgia and tinnitus have been made in the dental and medical literature for a long time.
Current understanding of this association is reviewed.
An analysis of relevant studies published between 1947 and 1996 shows that a relatively high percentage of TMD patients reported the presence of ear pain and noise.
However, a cause-effect relationship has not been established to date.
Theories that try to explain the concurrence of TMD symptoms and ear symptoms (particularly tinnitus) by a common underlying cause remain speculative.
It has to be taken into consideration that due to their high prevalence, TMDs and ear symptoms in a given patient may be present by chance alone.
A methodological weakness of most of the studies available is the fact that control groups were not considered.
Owing to the lack of prospective, controlled, and randomized studies, statements regarding the effectiveness of certain dental measures for the treatment of otalgia and tinnitus in TMD patients are not well supported.
Our report describes a 46-year-old woman with self-inflicted oedema of the left leg and the left arm.
She induced leg oedema by an elastic bandage tourniquet and arm oedema by holding her arm dependent and immobile.
A preexisting disorder of the affected leg (postthrombotic syndrome) and of the affected arm (hypoesthesia subsequent to surgical injury of the plexus brachialis) delayed the diagnostic proceedings.
Our case report shows that: -  Confirmed presence of organic disease does not exclude limb oedema of self-inflicted origin.
-  Oedema resulting from a tourniquet and "hysterical oedema" can be developed by one and the same patient.
-  Effective care of such patients is only possible if dermatologist and psychiatrist work together all the time (liaison psychiatry).
Purpose: This study was conducted to control improvement in the high preoperative prevalence of TMJ symptoms in patients treated by long-term orthodontic therapy for class II malocclusion.
Patients and methods: A total of 57 patients were examined at least 8 years after surgery, 37 having received orthodontic treatment and orthognathic surgery and 20 surgery but without orthodontic treatment.
Myofunctional, disk and condylar symptoms were recorded according to the Krough-Poulsen scheme.
Results: Both groups showed a normal maximal interincisal distance.
The deviation during the opening movement was mainly sigmoidal in the group with orthodontic treatment and terminal in the other group.
Muscular pain predominated in the group without orthodontic treatment.
Clicking sounds of the TMJ were registered in 70% of both groups.
Occlusal interference and a higher interocclusal distance when speaking were found more often in patients without orthodontic treatment.
Preoperatively, clicking and crepitation sounds had been recorded in 60% of both patients groups.
Conclusion: In conclusion, a high postoperative prevalence of TMJ dysfunction symptoms was found in patients with class II malocclusion 8-10 years after orthognathic surgery with or without orthodontic treatment.
Both groups often exhibited TMJ clicking and crepitation sounds, whereas the patients that had not received orthodontic treatment had a higher prevalence of occlusal interference and muscular pain.
The synthesis of pS 2 protein is induced through estrogen-dependent transcription of the pS 2 gene.
The presence of the pS 2 protein in breast cancer is thought to be as valuable as receptor status, or even more so, in predicting the response to hormonal therapy.
Furthermore, pS 2 appears to be a prognostic factor for primary breast cancer.
In 162 cases of primary breast cancer, pS 2 was tested by immunohistochemical procedures on formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissues.
Staining was evaluated semiquantitatively using an immunoreactive score (IRS).
The concentrations of pS 2 in tumor cytosol were determined using an immunoradiometric assay.
Positive staining for pS 2 (IRS >= 2) was seen in 27 % of the tumors.
Comparison of immunohistochemical and biochemical detection (26 % of tumors had pS 2 cytosol concentrations above the cut-off value of 26 ng/mg cell protein) revealed an 81 % concordance rate (r = 0.76; P < 0.0001).
Univariate analysis showed no significant correlation of immunohistochemical pS 2 detection and age or menopausal status of patients, tumor size, tumor grade or nodal status.
However, the immunohistochemical pS 2 status correlated significantly with the immunohistochemical detection of the estrogen (ER; P < 0.001) and progesterone receptor status (PR; P < 0.0001).
pS 2-positive tumors were ER-positive in 66 % of cases and PR-positive in 73 %; 89 % of pS 2-positive tumors were positive for ER and/or PR.
The incidence of immunohistochemical pS 2 detection was 41 % in the group of steroid receptor positive carcinomas (ER- and/or PR-positive) in contrast to 7 % in steroid receptor negative tumors (ER- and PR-negative).
Patients who have undergone coronary artery bypass grafting may develop acute myocardial infarction late after surgery.
It is not exactly known in these patients whether acute infarction is predominantly caused by occlusion of bypass or native vessels.
Also, there is no systematic and prospective data available with respect to an invasive, revascularizing therapeutic approach.
Therefore, acute coronary angiograms were obtained in 21 consecutive patients with acute infarctions and remote bypass grafting to elucidate mechanisms causing myocardial infarction in these patients, and to assess results of catheter-based recanalization.
We report the clinical and laboratory results of a family where one boy and one girl presented with a clinical picture resembling the X-linked agammaglobulinemia known as Bruton's disease.
Both children showed severe bacterial infections starting at the age of around 6 months, a lack of all immunoglobulin classes and absence of mature B-cells in the peripheral blood.
With respect to reports from the literature these results are yet another indicator for the existence of an autosomal-recessiv disorder with the same clinical make-up as Bruton's disease.
A deletion on chromosome 14 leading to the disorder was identified.
Conservative treatment of genuine stress urinary incontinence in females gained more and more interest.
The use of mini-devices is one of the newly developed therapeutical options however, its clinical relevance and longterm-results are still under debate.
This review article gives a critical evaluation of the available urethral plugs and regulators and new developments as well according to the longterm-follow-up studies in the literature and own experience with those devices.
The continence rates that can be obtained with the different plugs or regulators are dependent upon the degree of stress incontinence, ability to insert the plug and compliance of the patient.
Reported longterm results vary between 48 % and 100 %.
The most frequent side effects are urinary infection, haematuria and/or handling problems with the devices.
According to the published material it is impossible to give therapeutical standards for treatment of female stress urinary incontinence with urethral mini-devices.
Although proper Patient selection might give excellent longterm-results in patient continence rates.
Background: In contrast to the correction of simple myopia there is no widely accepted technique for the correction of myopic astigmatism.
Currently two techniques are available: the photoastigmatic refractive keratectomy (PARK) and the combination of arcuate keratotomies with standard PRK (PRK-T).
Although there are randomized data for CABG vs. medical therapy and CABG vs. PTCA in primary therapy of CAD, there is few evidence on the appropriate therapy of recurrent angina after prior CABG.
We analyzed data from 1265 consecutive patients (PTS.)
presenting for recurrent angina after previous CABG who required either re-CABG (n=67), PTCA (n=768) or medical therapy alone (medRx) (n=430) at our institution during 1986 through 1996.
Outcome after index therapy is monitored during 45  +/-  34 months.
The 3 therapeutic groups were similar with respect to gender (84 % male), age at therapy (60 years), prevalence of diabetes (22 %), and time to first ischemic event after primary CABG (37 months).
Actuarial survival was significantly higher in the PTCA-group at 1, 5 and 10 years after therapy of recurrent angina, despite the freedom from subsequent re-intervention was significantly lower (1-year-survival 95 % [37 %] vs. 95 % [3] medRx vs. 79 % [4 %] re-CABG, 5-year-survival 87 % [57 %] vs 78 % [17 %] medRx vs. 50 % [4 %] re-CABG and 10-year-survival 72 % [65 %] vs. 63 % [31 %] medRx vs. 50 % [15 %] re-CABG resp., p < 0.0001, [numbers in brackets represent corresponding values for incidence of re-intervention, p < 0.0001]).
These findings were similar after adjustment for different baseline characteristics.
Due to advances in surgical methods, such as miniplate and lag screw osteosynthesis, there is current discussion about the adequate therapy of condylar fractures.
Regarding the insufficient outcome of conservative treatment confirmed by refined methods of functional diagnosis, there is a trend towards surgical therapy, at least in cases of condylar displacement out of the fossa.
This trend was also prompted when surgeons learned that the condyle determines local growth but does not serve as a growth center of the mandible.
Along with increased interest in temporomandibular function and surgical therapy of internal disorders, surgical therapy of traumatic soft tissue lesions was emphasized.
This consequently led to surgical restoration of intraarticular fractures.
Conservative treatment will nonetheless be sufficient in cases of minor displacement due to a higher ability of remodeling, even more so in children.
A case of a 37-year-old woman with symmetrical bilateral apocrine hidrocystomas at the lateral margins of the eyelids is presented.
The symmetrical, simultaneous and bilateral appearance of the lesions, the lack of association with other abnormalities and the absence of the lesion in the family history make this case remarkable.
The situation of intensive care units (ICU) in Germany was analyzed by a national survey.
Questionnaires consisting of multiple-choice and short-answer questions were sent to ICUs of university hosptitals, hospitals with >1000 beds, 500-1000 beds, and hospitals with <500 beds separately with regard to the different disciplines (anesthesia ICUs, surgical ICUs, cardiac surgical ICUs, neurosurgical ICUs, neurological ICUs, mixed-surgical ICUs, internal ICUs, interdiscipline ICUs).
The personality organisation and the process of therapy of drug-addicted patients are examined by the comparative analysis of 15 single cases.
The antisocial tendency is emphasised as the main clinical feature.
It is related to specific genetic traumata and the externalisation of parts of the superego.
During the therapeutical process, the antisocial tendency destroys the therapeutical relation.
If it is possible to continue therapy beyond this point, the patients can now enter into a process, in which new identifications and the integration of parts of the superego are involved.
Approaching the end of the therapy, patients, again, tend to destroy the results of therapy if one does not consider specific problems of the separation process.
Objective: The Uppsala-definition of leukoplakia has recently redefined oral leukoplakia.
Based on this definition, the aim of our study was to reevaluate the prevalence of oral leukoplakia in patients with histologically proven primary oral cancer.
Design: A total of 101 inpatients in four tumor centers in Berlin were interviewed and clinically examined just prior to surgery of an oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC).
Results: The prevalence of leukoplakia immediately adjacent to the carcinoma was 15.8%.
Additional leukoplakias without relation to the carcinoma were found in 4% of the patients.
There were no significant differences in age- or sex-distribution, history of tobacco habits or diet  between patients with or without leukoplakia.
T1 carcinomas were found in 62.5% of patients with, and 24.4% of patients without associated leukoplakia, whereas a balanced distribution was found for the pre-operative staging of the tumor.
Conclusions: The prevalence of oral leukoplakia in patients with OSCC was low, compared to retrospective studies.
The presence or absence of leukoplakia indicated no influence on the prognosis of the tumor, except of tumor size.
The results emphasize that most OSCC develop from healthy appearing oral mucosa.
Cutaneous angiosarcomas mainly arise on the scalp and face of older patients.
They present with reddish nodules or plaques and tend to bleed and ulcerate.
Angiosarcomas show an aggressive and recurrent course and have a high potential for metastasis.
We report on a 48-year-old patient with unilateral eyelid edema as the first manifestation of an angiosarcoma.
The clinical presentation, the history of contact allergy, the presence of antinuclear antibodies, and abnormal thyroid function tests favoured a non-neoplastic disease.
However, multiple biopsies confirmed the diagnosis of a highly differentiated angiosarcoma.
Staging of the patient revealed no metastasis.
After radical surgery including orbital exenteration and postoperative radiation therapy, no recurrence was observed with a follow up of 26 months.
This case underlines the importance of including angiosarcoma in the differential diagnosis of unilateral eyelid edema.
The Marburg Cardiomyopathy Study (MACAS) is a prospective observational study designed to determine the value of the following potential non-invasive arrhythmia risk predictors in more than 200 patients with idiopathic dilated cardiomyopathy (IDC) over a 5-year-follow-up period: New York Heart Association functional class, left ventricular end-diastolic diameter and ejection fraction, left bundle branch block and atrial fibrillation on ECG, QTc and JTc-dispersion on 12-lead ECG, abnormal time-domain analysis and spectral turbulence analysis of the signal-averaged ECG, ventricular arrhythmias and heart-rate variability on 24-hour Holter ECG, baroreflex sensitivity, and microvolt T wave alternans during exercise.
Abstract   The observation of extremely variable clinical courses for patients with renal cell carcinomas of an identical pathological stage as well as a comparable histological differentiation resp.
growth pattern strongly indicates the existence of tumors harboring different biological aggressiveness.
Currently available histopathological classification systems do not predict the biological behaviour of renal cell cancer as sufficiently as the establishment of a therapeutical strategy adjusted to the individual patient would require.
The need for a more refined characterization of the biological potential of the indidual tumor results from the introduction of modified operative strategies as organ-preserving surgery, for example, as well as from the recently suggested application of an adjuvant systemic therapy adapted to the individual risk for tumor recurrence resp.
the development of progressive disease.
Therefore, the clinically orientated basic scientist and the basic scientifically orientated clinician intensively try to determine prognostically important biological variables which would allow to better predict the biological aggressiveness of a single tumor in addition to "classical" prognostic parameters (T-stage, histological grading, growth patterns).
In this context, several biological parameters including the identification of alterations on the DNA-, RNA- and protein level have been discussed as possible biological prognostic markers for renal cell cancer.
The present review tries to reflect currently available biological characteristics of RCC which might gain clinical importance with regard to an individualized therapy in the near future.
Until now reports of factitious disease have not been found in the ENT literature.
In contrast, the dermatologic literature estimates an incidence from 0.01 to 0.26%.
In order to achieve effective treatment for these patients, knowledge of the characteristic symptoms is fundamental.
The present paper describes the variety of disease possible, using three cases treated between 1992 and 1994 in the ENT Department of Cologne.
According to the literature, females are involved in a ratio of 9:1, with the majority working in medically related professions.
Depression and anorexia are typical symptoms.
When a factitious disease is suspected, psychiatric consultation is essential.
Confrontation of a suspect patient by the otolaryngologist is not often considered because several reports quote suicidal behavior in up to 25% of self-manipulating patients and tendencies to refuse to follow psychiatric treatment are considerable.
Numerous different diseases lead to scarring alopecia with irreversible follicular destruction as a common ending.
Current classifications are based on clinical, histopathological or prognostic parameters, as well as on pathogenetic criteria which allow only a rough assessment because the precise mechanisms leading to scarring alopecia are still unknown.
Inadequacies of the established classifications are obvious when regarding special forms of scarring alopecia like lichen planopilaris or pseudopelade Brocq.
In order to develop more satisfying classifications, recent insights into biology and pathology of the hair follicle and follicular cycling have to be considered.
The most important structures for the survival of the hair follicle are the epithelial stem cells which reside in the follicular bulge and the fibroblasts of the dermal papilla including the molecular communication between these two cell populations.
Research in the field of scarring alopecia should aim at defining the pathological processes on any of the above mentioned levels which will lead to an irreversible damage of the hair follicle thus allowing the development of new therapeutic agents.
Rheumatoid neutrophilic dermatitis is a rare dermatologic disorder seen in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis.
Clinically firm erythematous 3-5 mm papules are found mainly on the arms, the hips and the proximal thighs.
The lesions may be pruritic leading to excoriations and crusts.
Histology reveals a dense dermal infiltrate with neutrophilic granulocytes, while leukocytoclasia may be seen, vasculitits is not observed.
This overview of rheumatoid neutrophilic dermatitis may help remind the practioner to include this uncommon disorder in the differential diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis-related dermatoses.
Background: The rehabilitation of low vision patients is of increasing importance since the number of these patients has grown rapidly.
We wanted to evaluate the actual spectrum of patients concerning age and diagnoses and the appropriate low vision aids (LVA) in 1 year.
It is generally accepted that most inguinal hernias should be operated electively.
This study presents a risk calculation challenging this view.
Three strategies are presented: prophylactic indication on principle (A), elective operation in every second case (B), and operation in case of strangulation only (C).
On the basis of available epidemiological data it is calculated that, for the male German population aged 65 years and over 69 954 (A), 36 292 (B), and 2630 (C) inguinal hernia repairs would be necessary annually; 167 (A), 145 (B) and 123 (C) perioperative deaths would occur, connected with 1702 (A), 1373 (B) and 1048 (C) years of life lost, respectively.
Thus, operation of every inguinal hernia would result in a (small) reduction of life expectancy.
These data provide evidence that in elderly patients the indication for operative treatment of inguinal hernias should depend upon symptoms and suffering.
There is no reason to operate on asymptomatic patients because of a presumed risk of strangulation.
Since first described by Kibler (1955) hyperalgetic areas of the skin in company with arthropathy or diseases of internal organs are known to be a useful sign to define the affected segment.
While seldom utilized by physicians, physiotherapists frequently make use of these special findings concerning the skin as a common part of their daily work.
A certain problem exists in ranging correctly the corresponding segment of the spine, this mostly caused by the inaccurate idea of anatomical facts.
The actual as well as the former literature in this field shows very different views and opinions, all of them rather in contrast to the real anatomical findings.
In the following the topographic-anatomic conditions are presented of which exact knowledge is necessary to evaluate the palpation's result "Kibler's plica positive" relative to its diagnostic valence.
Aim of the study and methods: In the present study the correlation between ischemia induced ventricular tachyarrhythmias and a dynamic behavior of ventricular late potentials was investigated.
In 16 patients with significant coronary artery disease and survived sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia an electrophysiologic study (EPS) was performed.
Before EPS (t1), at every stimulation interval and after induction of a ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation (VT/VF) the lactate concentration was measured in arterial blood and in the coronary sinus for calculation of the myocardial lactate extraction.
Furthermore, before investigation, after induction of a VT/VF and after a 10 minute recovery phase an analysis of the signal averaged ECG was performed.
Nine patients showed a so-called "lactate reversal", i.e., an increase of the lactate concentration in the coronary sinus over the concentration of the arterial blood as an expression of ischemia development, during inducibility of a VT/VF (group A).
The control group consisted of 7 patients without ischemia related VT/VF (group B).
Results: In group A significant changes of the three late potential criteria were found between t1 and t2 (QRS:115.61 +/- 13.86 vs. 126.06 +/- 16.74, p=0.08; RMS: 25.81 +/- 22.26 vs. 13.11 +/- 10.72, p=0.01; LAS: 37.72 +/- 19.26 vs. 50.06 +/- 10.72, p=0.01).
In group B, no significant changes could be measured.
Furthermore, the prevalence of late potentials increased in group A from 66% (t1) to 89% (t2), whereas in group B no increase was detectable.
Conclusions: These data suggest a dynamic behavior of ventricular late potentials in correlation with the inducibility of ventricular tycharrhythmias due to ischemic circumstances.
Therefore the dynamic behavior of ventricular late potentials can be an expression of a modification of the arrhythmogenic substrate in arrhythmia endangered patients.
Recent studies and reviews continue to report a high mortality associated with the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), which involves a severe inflammatory reaction within the whole lung that is frequently associated with multiple-organ failure.
Important factors contributing to the poor results in severe ARDS are the aggressive procedures required to maintain sufficient arterial oxygenation, such as mechanical ventilation with high inspiratory pressures and high inspired oxygen concentrations (FiO2) which themselves contribute to the progression of the disease.
As no specific therapy that reduces or prevents the general inflammatory reaction is known, current therapy is limited to procedures that minimize peak inspiratory pressures and FiO2.
Therefore, pressure- and volume-limited ventilation modes with positive end-expiratory pressure, controlled hypercapnia, differential lung ventilation when appropriate, positioning (particularly prone), and aggressive dehydration are used.
Should these procedures fail to improve arterial gas exchange, the patients may be additionally treated by veno-venous extracorporeal gas exchange.
To reduce the risk of severe haemorrhagic complications due to high levels of systemic heparinization, systems internally coated with covalently bound heparin, which allow a lower level of systemic anticoagulation, should be used.
From April 1989 to August 1993, 89 patients were transferred to our intensive care unit for treatment of severe ARDS; 52 were treated by combining the described conventional methods without artificial gas exchange (survival rate 88%) and 37 additionally underwent artificial gas exchange (survival rate 57%).
The overall survival rate was 75%.
On the basis of these experiences, we conclude that this step-by-step approach may improve survival in patients with severe ARDS.
Cutis marmorata teleangiectatica congenita (CMTC) is a rare congenital vascular disorder of the venous system.
In 50% of cases there are associated anomalies of other organ systems.
Clinical improvement of the cutaneous manifestations is noted in most cases and usually occurs during the first year of life.
We present a patient with CMTC with a band-like pattern following the L3 dermatome.
At the age of 13 years, the skin manifestations worsened, with ulcerations and intermittent claudication.
Angiographic imaging revealed stenosis of the deep femoral artery, and the circumflex femoral artery and the first perforating arteries were not visualized.
To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of CMTC with anomalies of the large arteries.
Introduction: The efficacy of vascular surgery in the treatment of popliteal arterial aneurysms (PAA) and the justification of conservative therapy was investigated in the present study.
Materials and methods: From January 1985 to December 1996, 87 patients were operated on for PAA.
The clinical records were reviewed retrospectively and patients were categorized concerning PAA-related symptoms, vascular run-off, and material used for vascular reconstruction.
Patients were examined, and the patency of the vascular reconstruction was checked by palpation and Doppler sonography.
Results: The cumulative survival calculated using the Kaplan-Meier curve was 70% after 10 years.
Asymptomatic patients had the best results and patients with acute ischemia, the worst.
The outcome concerning patent vs. occluded run-off and autologous vs. heterologous bypass material was similar.
Conclusion: Asymptomatic and uncomplicated PAA should be treated surgically.
Only PAA with a diameter less than 2 cm, and without thrombus on the vessel walls can be treated conservatively.
Collodion baby is a clinical description for a transient condition of the newborn which is caused by various disorders of cornification.
The majority of cases are due to autosomal recessive lamellar ichthyosis.
In up to 10% of cases "self-healing" of the skin occurs.
We report about a mature male baby who at birth was covered entirely with a shining, collodion-like membrane.
There also were marked ectropion of the eyelids and eversion of the lips.
After shedding of the membrane almost complete clearing of the skin occurred until the age of three months.
In the case reported here skin biopsies taken on the 20th day of life showed discrete and non-specific ultrastructural changes, with no features of lamellar ichthyosis or other cornification disorders.
Past research on the phenomenon of enhanced pain sensitivity in fibromyalgia syndome (FS) revealed evidence for both a higher pain magnitude in response to nociceptive stimuli (hyperalgesia) and a general perceptual amplification of sensations (hypervigilance).
In order to distinguish between these two aspects of disturbed sensory processing in FS, cerebral evoked potentials after brief painful laser and auditory stimuli were measured in 10 FS patients.
Results were compared with those from age-matched painfree controls.
Amplitudes of middle-latency (N1) and long-latency (P2) laser evoked potentials (LEPs) were significantly higher in FS than in controls.
Furthermore, laser intensity at pain but not at sensation threshold was lower in FS than in controls.
However, auditory evoked potentials (AEPs) did not differ between groups.
Enhanced N1 and P2 amplitudes of LEPs suggest stronger sensory and attentional processing of nociceptive information in FS, respectively.
The concept of hypervigilance is challenged by the failure to find differences in auditory perception among FS and control patients.
Yet, the importance of unpleasant intensities of auditory stimulation, not applied in this study, to reveal abnormal non-nociceptive perceptual amplification in FS is discussed.
In a prospective study, 53 fractures of the distal fifth of the tibia were stabilized by unreamed nailing.
Additional involvement of the ankle joint occurred in 18 patients.
50 patients returned for follow-up.
In 30 patients tibia and fibula were fractured at the same (distal) level; in 20 patients the fracture of the fibula was located more proximally.
In 12 patients the fractures extended into the tibial pilon.
Severe soft tissue damage was seen in 24 fractures (18 open, 6 closed).
Ninety percent of all fractures healed uneventfully without further surgical intervention after unreamed nailing.
In two patients the unreamed nail had to be exchanged for a reamed tibial nail.
Bone grafting and secondary dynamization of the nail by removal of a proximal interlocking bolt were performed in one case each.
Thirty-one fractures healed in anatomical position.
Valgus or varus angulation of less than 5  ° occurred in 18 patients.
One fracture healed with rotatory angulation of 15  °.
The highest rate of complications (22 %) was seen in patients with distal fractures of the fibula without additional plating (of the fibula).
There was no deep infection.
Tibial fractures close to the ankle joint can be managed by unreamed nailing.
Distal fractures of the fibula should be stabilized by additional plating.
Because of the unreamed technique of implantation this procedure can also be used in grade II or III open fractures.
Complex mechanisms have evolved in mammalian cells for regulating cellular lifespan.
Normal cells demonstrate a strictly limited growth potential and senescence after a defined number of cell divisions.
In contrast, tumor cells often exhibit an apparently unlimited proliferation potential and are termed immortalized.
It has been proposed that the progressive shortening of the tips of the eukaryotic chromosomes - the telomeres - is an important component of senescence and is involved in the control of cell cycle.
The enzyme telomerase adds TTAGGG repeats onto mammalian telomeres, preventing their shortening.
Telomerase is normally inactive in most somatic cells, but detectable in tumor cells.
The activation of telomerase in malignant cancers seems to be an important step in tumorigenesis in order to gain the ability of indefinite proliferation and to become immortal.
This review describes the present knowledge of telomeres and telomerase and their role in cellular senescence and human aging.
It summarizes aspects of telomerase in cancer and its function as a diagnostic and prognostic tumor marker.
PCR-based diagnosis of infectious diseases has developed into an important method in surgical pathology.
We summarize our experience in this area based on 3500 analyses performed during the past 5 years.
The peculiarity of material from a pathological laboratory is the risk of DNA fragmentation as a consequence of tissue fixation.
For this reason the assays used must be adapted to this particular situation.
PCR-based diagnosis of infectious diseases, if performed according to appropriate quality standards, is a safe and effective technique with high sensitivity and specificity and results in an etiologically based diagnosis.
The shift of age distribution within the population of industrialized societies has led to an increased need of treating diseases in elderly patients and at the same time in a higher number of patients bearing an increased operative risk.
Today, the development of surgical techniques and intensive care treatment enables us to carry out numerous procedures in geriatric patients.
Innovative surgical techniques like minimal invasive surgery with minor trauma due to the surgical approach changed patient's categories, also.
Taken together with other procedures causing less operative stress indications for patients who were not operable previously have changed.
New developments such as organ transplantation and immunosuppression also generated totally new groups of patients with very distinct conditions for the operative procedure.
Vanishing indications or selection of patients as in peptic ulcer disease changed the surgical approach completely: Negative selection has shifted elective operative interventions in ulcer disease to emergency procedures.
Contrasting experiences made in most other countries and especially in the third world, in Germany economic restrictions have not been encountered as of yet.
Economical conditions, an increase in surgical procedures in elderly patients and advances in medical science will continue to change the surgical patient's characteristics profoundly.
From the physicians viewpoint we have to actively participate in this development by personal interaction with the patient, by interdisciplinary cooperation and prompt social and political action.
Osteoid osteomas are tumors with intense clinical symptoms and extensive reactive bone changes far exceeding the volume of the lesion itself.
Because of their small size they can be approached by minimally invasive surgical procedures.
We treated ten symptomatic patients with osteoid osteomas (n 6 hip point, n 1 iliac bone, n 1 femoral diaphysis, n2 tibial diaphysis) by excision of the nidus with a 3-mm Harlow-Wood needle using a percutaneous CT-guided approach.
Seven patients with residual tumor were treated with either thermocautery (n 2) or sclerosis with 1 ml of 96% ethanol (n 5).
Six patients had instant and constant relief (3 years' observation) of their pain.
In two patients a second transcutaneous intervention was successful.
Only two patients needed open resection.
Compared with the invasive open resection of the tumors, sometimes even putting the stability of the femoral neck at risk, transcutaneous CT-guided enucleation of the nidus of the osteoid osteoma with additional sclerotherapy is a good alternative method, especially in the region of the femoral neck.
We live in an epoch that could be designated as the post-Gutenberg-era.
Writing is no longer the dominant sign system.
It is replaced by electronic signs.
We consider approximately the year 1950 as the turning-point between these two epochs, because by then, in the years after the 2nd World War the American households were saturated with televisions.
Thereby, the new sign system asserted itself.
The topic of this article is the transformation of our sign system and thereby of our worlds of symbols, the leap from the world of written signs into the world of electronic signs, and the possibility born out of it to create electronic objects, which I prefer to call virtual objects.
The manipulation of object-choice and object-relationships accompanying this change and the role assigned to analysts in this new world will be considered as well.
These electronic signs developed quickly a life of their own.
A totally new class of objects came into being, the class of virtual objects.
These are electronically transformed, completed or wholly electronically produced objects.
This procedure is accompanied by an industrialization of object-choice and object-relationships.
The manipulated object-choice and object-relationship is born and, moreover, a displacement of natural objects through virtual ones.
A change of the socio-cultural understanding is also a consequence of this process.
New patterns of socio-cultural understanding develop, that could be described as industrial feudalism.
The goal of this article is to describe the transformation of our world of signs and the connected industrialization of object relationships, and to interprete them according to our present possibilities.
In this article 34 randomized controlled trials examining peripherally mediated opioid effects after knee surgery are discussed.
All studies examined small doses of morphine injected intraarticularly at the end of knee surgery, but not all studies did show an analgesic effect of the peripheral opioid.
Because of differing study designs a meta-analysis of the data is not possible.
Dysplastic epithelia represent potentially precancerous conditions in which the risk of progression to cancer is unknown in the individual case.
The positive predictive value of mild and moderate dysplasias of the uterine cervix is only about 13%.
Using DNA image cytometry on restained, conventional Pap-smears the cytometric equivalent of chromosomal aneuploidy can be detected as marker for neoplastic transformation of cells.
The identification of DNA aneuploidy in dysplastic squamous epithelia can increase the predictive value for malignant transformation to over 90%.
DNA aneuploidy qualifies squamous intraepithelial lesions as high grade (H-SIL) which have to be treated whereas lack of DNA aneuploidy characterizes low grade squamous intraepithelial lesions (L-SIL) which have only to be controlled.
The methodology is meanwhile internationally standardized concerning performance and diagnostic interpretation.
In this brief article I attempt to sketch a few salient insights from my career as a researcher and practitioner of psychotherapy: The key to successful therapy is undoubtedly the therapist's empathic listening, coupled with a series of other positive attributes and finely honed interpersonal skills.
On the debit side, patients' hostility frequently evokes counterhostility from the therapist which not infrequently results in a negative outcome.
Percutaneous dilatational tracheotomy is a procedure for inserting a tracheal cannula without a large incision, without extensive dissection of pretracheal tissue, and without exposure of the trachea.
The early complications of the technique are usually minor and late complications are rare.
Although it is a simple procedure, it is not a minor operation.
Users must be familiar with the technique, the indications and contra-indications for the procedure, as well as the complications.
Proper training of the operation and knowledge of the procedure will avoid unnecessary complications.
Percutaneous dilatational tracheotomy is a relatively new technique for inserting a cannula in the tracheal lumen.
It can be done at the patients bedside with only minimal complications.
A short history, the indications and contraindications, the early and late complications of the technique, and comparisons with other techniques as well as with conventional open tracheotomy are reviewed.
In this study, a histologic and histomorphometric analysis of delayed and immediate-placed implants was performed.
An implantation of 16 self-cutting conical titanium screw implants was carried out in 8 beagle dogs.
Of these implants, 8 were placed immediately after extraction of the second premolar and 8 implants were placed after 6 months of healing after extraction.
For dynamic histomorphometry, fluorochrome bone markers were injected at two different times prior to euthanasia.
The specimens were examined macroscopically and microscopically 8 months after implantation.
A histologic, dynamic, and static histomorphometry was performed with the aid of different computer programs.
A mean surface of osseointegration of 75.7% and a mean soft tissue implant contact surface of 24.2% was seen in immediate-placed implants.
For delayed implantation, an osseointegrated surface of 80.7% and a soft tissue covering of 19.3% was examined.
The fibrogenic structures in the cervical implant part were more dense and there were more adhesive epithelial elements (hemidesmosomes) around delayed implants.
The result of the dynamic and static histomorphometry showed no significant differences in the two groups (P < 0.1).
In conclusion, it can be stated that a new steady-state of the soft and hard tissue around dental implants was seen 8 months after implant insertion in both groups.
There was a pseudoankylotic healing in the osseous part.
The lower level of osseointegration in immediate-placed implants was caused by early resorption of bone in the crestal part.
Thus, a larger part of the implant was surrounded by soft tissue and a long epithelial attachment resulted.
Polydactyly may be preaxial or tibial (halluxside), postaxial or ulnar (side of the little toe) and central (middle toes).
The duplication may appear at the distal and medial phalanges or at the whole digit.
The metatarsal bone may be partwise or completely duplicated, the accessory toes may share only one metatarsal.
Surgical intervention may be indicated in shoeproblems, for esthetic reasons or, especially in duplication of the metatarsales, because of secondary deviation of the toes and therefore shoeproblems or plantar callosities.
Preoperative analysis including x-ray is of great importance to achieve good functional and cosmetic results.
Across centers, transfusion can vary eightfold for the same mediastinal drainage after adult cardiac operations.
Excessive blood drainage resulting in increased transfusions occurs in 29 % of patients.
Various strategies have been proposed to decrease bleeding and allogenic transfusion requirements in the perioperative period of heart surgery.
Blood conservation methods were reviewed critically.
Avoidance of preoperative anemia, tolerance of low hemoglobin concentrations, the use of autologous blood, and adherence to a strict transfusion protocol will reduce the use of allogenic transfusions.
Perioperatively, maintenance of normothermia contributes to improved hemostasis.
Injections with botulinum toxin type A (BTX) are considered the first-line treatment for spasmodic torticollis (ST), blepharospasm (BL) and hemifacial spasm (HFS).
Because BTX brings only temporary and partial relief, patients frequently try other additional therapies to minimize their symptoms.
The subjective rating of all therapies ever tried by patients with ST, BL and HFS was evaluated by using a simple questionnaire.
Two hundred questionnaires were considered (112 TS, 54 BL, 34 HFS).
BTX was rated subjectively the best therapy in all three diagnostic groups (median: 2=good effect).
Despite Citalopram and physiotherapy (median: 3=average effect), all other therapies were rated with a median of >=4 (=minimal effect).
Patients with ST tried 7.7, patients with BL 2.4 and patients with HFS 2.6 different types of therapy.
In conclusion, BTX is the most effective treatment for patients with ST, BL and HFS, as rated subjectively.
Further evaluation of therapies additional to BTX injections is recommended.
The perioperative morbidity and mortality is mainly influenced by the type and duration of surgery as well as the patient's preoperative state of health.
Anesthesia per se, however, may also result in severe perioperative (patho)physiological changes, which may be both desired (e.g.
analgesia, vasodilation in vascular surgery) or detrimental (e.g.
hypothermia, ventilatory depression) and which may differ depending on the anesthetic technique used (e.g.
general anesthesia vs. regional anesthesia).
Yet, all anesthestic techniques have in common, that their effects are not limited to the duration of the surgical intervention, but may expand far into the postoperative period.
Therefore, many trials have been performed in the past aiming to compare the impact of different anesthetic techniques on the incidence of postoperative techniques, no significant advantage of one or the other technique has been identified up to now with respect to postoperative mortality or severe morbidity.
This finding may be due to at least three factors.
1) Many side-effects related to anesthesia - due to close postoperative monitoring - are detected and treated early in the postoperative phase (e.g.
in the recovery room), thereby preventing serious complications.
2) Postoperative mortality related exclusively to anesthesia probably is so low, that huge patient numbers would be required to demonstrate any significant differences between different techniques.
3) Besides the factor 'anesthesia', may other factors contribute to the anesthesia related morbidity and mortality (e.g.
the factor 'anesthetist') which are hardly quantified.
The fact that clear advantages for a single technique have not yet been demonstrated must not, however, result in anesthetic 'nihilism'.
Rather there may be good reasons in the individual patient (e.g.
lack of a recovery room), to prefer a certain anesthetic technique or drug over another, in order to lower the individual risk of anesthesia.
Whether the use of a certain technique - e.g.
spinal or epidural anesthesia - may contribute to a reduction of specific postoperative surgical complications (e.g.
rate of reocclusion subsequent to peripheral vascular surgery) is presently under investigation.
This paper first describes how the project study on the regulation and monitoring of medical treatment arose.
We then introduce its objectives, the members of the study group, the composition of the collective and selection of cases, and the methods used for ascertainment and recording of data.
Results are then presented with reference to the various hypotheses put forward.
After some introductory remarks about the traumatizing experience many parents have after the birth of a very small preterm baby (<= 1500 g), a developmental risk model is presented.
This is the basis for an early beginning preventive psychotherapeutic intervention.
In the Ulm Study the comprehensive parent-centered intervention program includes insight oriented focal individual psychotherapy, supportive group psychotherapy, a home visit and a video-based sensitivity training.
The intervention aims to improve parental coping, the process of attachment and parent-infant interaction.
The theoretical implications, the design and the methods of this prospective randomized longitudinal study will be discussed.
We report the case of a 55-year-old male patient who underwent transanal endoscopic microsurgery for recurrent benign rectal adenoma.
He developed severe postoperative retroperitoneal phlegmon and sepsis and died 28 days after the operation due to untreatable diffuse intraabdominal bleeding caused by persistent thrombocytopenia.
Rudolf Nissen was born in Neisse, Schlesien, 9 September 1896.
From 1921 to 1933 he was the favorite pupil of Ferdinand Sauerbruch in Munich and Berlin.
1930 he became professor of surgery at the Charité.
The assumption of power by the Nazi-regime forced Nissen to resign his position and end his career in Germany.
He took over the surgical chair in Istanbul, Turkey.
Emigrating in 1939 to the USA, he held surgical positions in hospitals at New York and accepted in 1952 the chair of Surgery at the University of Basel, Switzerland.
Nissen died in Riehen/Basel on 22 January 1981.
Nissen was a critical observant clinician, an efficient and popular physician, a teacher and a speaker.
Of historical significance are pioneering works in thoracic surgery, the first successful pneumectomy in man, the classical works about the treatment of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease and hiatus hernia.
The Nissen-Rossetti type of fundoplication has remained the standard procedure in Europe and the USA.
This study describes the approach that is necessary in outpatient surgery in order to carry out the operation safely.
The particular procedure is discussed, and the necessity of strict postoperative management is shown.
Between 1994 and 1997, the author supervised 4588 outpatient operations, of which 3020 were arthroscopic.
The observed complications are listed and evaluated.
Overall, outpatient surgery is well accepted by the patients.
The criteria for denying a patient surgery on an outpatient basis are laid out.
The Schering Atlas is a teaching file in CT and MRI anatomy designed for physicians and students.
It is available on CD-ROM, shows good image quality, and is easy to use in medium-price-range personal computer systems.
Because of the amount and quality of image material, the Schering Atlas's price is appropriate for institutions, but not for private users.
M. Linehan developed "dialectical behavioral therapy" specifically to treat chronically suicidal borderline patients.
It rests on a biosocial model that assumes a disorder in the regulation of emotions and in tolerance of stress.
The numerous dysfunctional patterns of behavior such as self-destructive behavior, inability to govern impulses or severe dissociative phenomena are regarded as attempts at problem-solving.
This concept of therapy focuses on the continuing balance between the necessity of accepting maladaptive behavior patterns in both an intrapsychic and an interactional context while still working to change them.
A comprehensive manual outlines the clearly structured therapy and integrates a wide choice of therapeutic strategies.
Parallel to development of the therapy itself, a method also was developed for testing therapist adherence to the manual's guidelines, thus providing a basis for empirical evaluation.
An initial controlled, randomized study demonstrated the significant superiority of this method to methods of unspecific psychotherapy at various levels.
In the current endeavor to develop disorder-specific approaches to the treatment of personality disorders, "dialectical behavioral therapy" is a noteworthy model.
Complications associated with the application of a halo device are not infrequent; however, osteomyelitis of the skull with a consecutive subdural abscess is a rare but severe complication.
We present the case of a patient with a subdural abscess as a result of a local pin-track infection of the halo device, in whom pathological behavior was the primary clinical finding.
The possible complications associated with the halo device are discussed with emphasis on associated head injuries and preexisting neurological diseases, as well as indications for the halo, clinical symptoms of pin-track infections, necessary diagnostic measurements and the appropriate treatment.
The attempt was made to explain dysfunctions of the motor system - analogical to electronic data processing systems - as a speciality of the regulation part of the motor system.
Thereby dysfunctions can be seen as misplaced variables in the regulation software with not defined or unknown values of afferences or combination of afferences.
This leads to a failure of the corresponding software modul that results in the loss of function which is regulated through this modul.
Especially with changing of afference through manual treatment or through needling, a replacement of the variables can be reached and this leads to normal function.
With this hypothesis all phenomens of dysfunctions can be explained.
Empirical data on costs of care for chronically mentally ill patients in Germany are rare.
There is a lack of cross-sectional studies as well as of any analysis of the long-term course of mental health care costs.
This study combines data from two cost-studies on patients with schizophrenia, conducted in the same catchment area at an interval of 15 years, to draw conclusions about the long-term course of these costs.
The direct costs of comprehensive community based mental health care had increased by 77.0% during 15 years, while the costs of a permanents stay in a long-term ward of a psychiatric hospital had increased by 78.5% in the same period.
This increase was 27 and 28.5 per cent higher than the general rise in cost of living in Germany during the interval between the two studies.
This higher-than-average increase in mental health care costs was accompanied by a much higher cost-effectiveness.
Thus, this rise of costs must be seen as a consequence of the great deficits and the resulting basic improvement of care for chronically mentally ill patients in Germany, which was demanded by an expert-commission of the government in the mid-seventies.
Background: The usefulness of Holter monitoring to detect rarely occuring symptoms seems to be limited.
In adults the event recorder has already been a precise diagnostic tool in evaluating palpitations and syncopes.
There have been few reports of the implementation of cardiac monitoring with an event recorder in children.
The immunomodulating effect of primary surgical intervention was investigated in 33 patients with squamous cell carcinomas of the oral cavity, pharynx and larynx.
An operation time longer than 7 h was significantly associated with a decrease in lymphocytes, CD4+ T-lymphocytes and CD8+ T-lymphocytes.
The CD4/CD8-ratio as a marker for the down-regulation of the cellular immune response was slightly decreased but was still in the normal range.
CD4-lymphocyte counts increased 7 days after operation while CD8 lymphocytes were found elevated 4 weeks after sugery.
The in vitro stimulation of the lymphocytes was impaired for 1 to 4 weeks.
Interleukins, interferon-gamma and tumor necrosis factor did not show any changes after surgery.
Decreases of lymphocytes, especially CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocytes, were significantly associated with the time of operation and the volume of blood loss.
Extensive trauma, age, different kinds of anesthesia and intensive care interventions were not associated with specific immunomodulating effects, although these factors might be responsible for suppressing cytokine responses.
Both preclinical and clinical evidence support the usefulness of antidepressants in chronic pain treatment.
Monoamine uptake inhibitors influence the neurotransmissions of noradrenaline (NA) and/or serotonin (5-HT); their effect on nociception is thought to take place predominantly within the spinal cord.
Antidepressant drugs seem to differ in their properties as analgesics and as thymoleptics.
The present work is aimed at correlating the special mechanism of action of antidepressants in diminishing nocicepetion with the pharmacological profile of these drugs in clinical pain treatment.
From a preclinical, experimental point of view, it can be expected, that mixed type uptake blockers should be superior to selective NA or 5-HT uptake inhibitors.
The analgesic profile of antidepressants was established by a metaanalysis of clinical trials on the effect of these drugs, given alone or in combination with other analgetics, in chronic pain syndromes.
57 Clinical trials were separated into 5 groups according to their scientific quality: [1] placebo-controlled double-blind studies with high power; [2] placebo-controlled double-blind studies with low power; [3-4] open controlled studies or studies with historical controls; [5] case reports.
A study was positive if the tested antidepressant was more effective than placebo or the compared drug or seemed beneficial with respect to the interval of its previous absence.
The most effective antidepressants in chronic pain treatment only included unselective monoamine reuptake inhibitors in the following rank order: amitriptyline > clomipramine >= desipramine >= imipramine >= doxepin.
A statement about the appropriate dosage of these drugs in chronic pain treatment, however, must wait for properly conducted dose finding studies which include the measurement of plasma concentrations.
Intensive care medicine for both surgical and medical patients has a common scientific and clinical basis.
In critically ill patients the medical conditions are complex and can be managed only by specialists thoroughly trained in intensive care medicine.
Therefore, surgeons as well as anesthesiologists must have a detailed theoretical and clinical knowledge of intensive care medicine.
Surgical training places the emphasis on operative skills, while intraoperative management of the patient by the anesthesiologist calls for skills involved in intensive care medicine.
Interdisciplinary cooperation between specialists is essential to improve the quality of intensive care medicine further.
The cooperation that already exists between surgeons and anesthesiologists makes closer collaboration in the future a logical step.
In this review article data of retrospective studies on the therapeutic effects of oxygen are summarized and possible indications for this therapy suggested.
Studies in infants with chronic lung disease (CLD) showed that (i) if SaO2 was kept >= 93 % via generous prescription of home oxygen, rates of sudden death were much lower than in studies where this was less generously prescribed, (ii) weight gain was significantly better with O2 therapy than without it, (iii) increasing SaO2 from 82 to 93 % by providing low-flow oxygen resulted in a 50 % reduction of pulmonary artery pressure, (iv) hypoxia could cause a significant increase in airway resistance, and (v) low-flow oxygen reduced the frequency of intermittent falls in SaO2 to < 85 % even in infants who had values of >= 90 % at rest.
These data suggest that oxygen therapy should be considered in CLD infants if baseline SaO2 is < 93 %.
For older infants, particularly with CF, only few data are available.
In these patients oxygen may only be given if SaO2 is < 90 % unless there are clinical symptoms related to hypoxaemia, e. g. pulmonary hypertension.
Regarding the practical aspects of home oxygen therapy, provision of liquid oxygen via nasal cannulae appears to be the method of choice.
Side effects include the risk of CO2 retention, which occurs occasionally in children with CF or sleep-related upper airway obstruction, but has not been reported for infants with CLD.
To identify this potential side effect and to determine the exact amount of oxygen required, performance of a sleep recording of SaO2 and CO2 with and without oxygen is suggested.
In infants with CLD, home monitoring of oxygenation should also be considered.
Fractures of the distal radius represent one of the most common fractures and do have high social-economic relevance.
For treatement they need practicable classification and therapeutic standards.
The demand for stable osteosynthesis of A3-, B2-B3 and C1-C2-fractures is connected to dorsal or volar internal fixation with plate and practical autogenous cancellous bone grafting, even for the elder patient.
The isolated external fixation with K-wires represent special situation.
Supply of implants and biodegradable materials will support this development.
Introduction: Pheochromocytoma during pregnancy is rare and represents a high risk for mother and fetus.
Due to the variable clinical presentation it may be mistaken for preeclampsia.
Case: A 34-year-old primiapara with hypertension up to 240/120 mmHg.
After diagnosis of a pheochromocytoma its resection together with lymph node metastasis in the 17th week of gestation was performed.
Conclusion: The definitive diagnosis is confirmed by elevation of serum catecholamines and their metabolites in a 24-h urine collection.
Localization during pregnancy can be made by ultrasound and MRI.
The definitive treatment is surgical removal after administration of adrenergic blockers.
If discovered later in pregnancy, delivery by elective caesarean section followed by tumor resection is recommended.
Since about 10 % of pheochromocytomas are malignant, postpartum screening is required to detect and treat extraadrenal or metastatic tumors by MIBG scintigraphy, chemotherapy or surgical procedures.
Ionizing radiation from natural or man-made sources may affect human health.
The main consequence of low and moderate radiation doses is the induction of cancer.
To quantify these effects both epidemiological studies and experimental radiobiological research are needed.
The ensuing results of the studies are used to establish radiation protection principles and dose limits to protect the public from the effects of ionizing radiation.
Homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia is associated with premature atherosclerosis and early cardiovascular death if untreated.
In an asymptomatic 13-year-old girl we discovered an extensive hypoplasia of the abdominal aorta and the Aa.
iliacae, a combination which so far has not been described, that has not been reported before.
The vascular hypoplasia was asymptomatic.
Angiography additionally showed severe atherosclerosis of the Aa.
After 13 months of low-density-lipoprotein(LDL)-apheresis angiographically there was no pregression, but even slight improvement of vascular the disease.
Discussion: Since severe atheromatous changes of systemic arteries may be missed by clinical examination, we strongly recommend complete imaging of all major systemic arteries in children with homozygous familial hypercholesterinemia.
LDL-apheresis is the treatment of choice in these patients.
Since 1993 almost 400 patients with port wine stains have been treated with the flashlamp pumped pulsed dye laser.
The therapeutic effect on 61 adult patients was evaluated.
After a mean of 2.16 treatments the colour lightened by between 33% and 100% in 70% of these patients.
The best results were obtained in patients with plain pink port wine stains.
In this kind of port wine stains the argon laser has proved to be far less successful.
The rate of adverse effects amounted to only 5%.
The results are expected to be improved by further laser sessions.
The flashlamp pumped pulsed dye laser is an important advance in the treatment of port wine stains.
Most craniofacial malformations result from a premature fusion of skull sutures.
Depending on the scope of the sutures affected, the results are more or less distinct deformations of the facial and cranial skull with substantial negative effects on functional as well as esthetic aspects.
The etiopathology is still unclear.
Various therapies have been developed over the past 100 years.
However, Tessier's technique of fronto-orbital advancement has been an important milestone in the treatment of these malformations.
Numerous adjustments have since perfected this operational technique.
It is now possible to treat practically all skull malformations with the surgical techniques available today.
At the same time, these techniques have also aided the advancements in tumor surgery and traumatology.
Injuries of the flexor tendon are usually open injuries.
In most cases primary treatment is therefore seldom performed by orthopaedic surgeons.
This is different for injuries of the extensor tendon.
Three quarters of injuries of the extensor tendon are closed injuries.
Therefore we do go into primary and secondary reconstruction of the flexor tendon, but focus on primary and secondary reconstruction of the extensor tendon in the most common zones (1, Th I, 3, Th III).
The Shouldice operation has evolved to become the classic procedure for open pure tissue repair for inguinal hernias.
The operation is an important part of a surgeon's repertoire as he may need to perform the procedure at some critical time, especially when faced with strangulation, when tension-free prosthetic repairs and laparoscopic approaches fail.
When properly done, the Shouldice repair yields results that have set standards for all other techniques to emulate.
Other particular advantages of the technique are: safety, the use of local anaesthesia, benign postoperative complications and the cost, which is the most reasonable of all surgical techniques.
Acute occlusive mesenteric ischemia is caused by a local impairment of splanchnic blood flow and poses a particular surgical challenge.
Acute superior mesenteric occlusion is a medical/surgical emergency mandating prompt diagnosis (clinical awareness, angiography) and therapy (exploratory laparotomy with possible arterial reconstruction; embolectomy, thrombectomy; and/or bowel resection).
The difficulty of early diagnosis is probably the most important cause of the high mortality which varies from 70 % to 90 % in arterial and functional mesenteric ischemia and from 20 % to 70 % in an acute thrombosis of the mesenteric veins.
Improved survival from nonocclusive mesenteric ischemia is dependent upon the identification of high-risk groups and on aggressive diagnostic and therapeutic measures (intra-arterial infusion of papaverine through the angiographic catheter with or without bowel resection).
For assessment of bowel viability, the clinical judgement during first- or second-look exploration is still the most reliable parameter.
The surgical management of chronic mesenteric ischemia includes aortomesenteric grafting and transaortic endarterectomy in the majority of patients with comorbidity of cardiovascular arteriosclerotic diseases and results in a high rate of symptom-free patients.
Prophylactic reconstruction of visceral arteries is indicated only in certain limited circumstances.
Thirty-nine of 63 patients undergoing deep anterior rectal resection received a straight coloanal anastomosis (CAA); the remaining 24 patients additionally had a colon-j-pouch (CPA) constructed.
After pouch-anal anastomosis, local septic complications occurred in 12.5 % of patients compared to 20.5 % after coloanal anastomosis.
Stool frequency after pouch-anal anastomosis was 3.3 per 24 h compared to 5.2 per 24 h after straight anastomosis within the first year after ileostomy closure (P = 0.053).
Continence was slightly better in the pouch group (n. s.), and anal manometry showed a significant postoperative decrease only in resting pressure after straight coloanal anastomosis (P < 0.001).
This study supports the construction of a colon-j-pouch after deep rectal resection, as the pouch-anal anastomosis has fewer local septic complications and seems to improve functional outcome.
The introduction of flow-directed pulmonary artery (PA) catheters has helped to improve our knowledge of cardiovascular physiology.
There have been several developments of this equipment in recent years, including continuous monitoring of mixed-venous O2 saturation (Sv\=O2) and cardiac output (CO).
The high purchase price, however, is an obstacle to its use in the critically ill.
The aim of the present study was to analyse the actual costs of these devices in comparison to standardly used intermittent monitoring of Sv\=O2 and CO.
Purpose: Persistent hypotony with maculo-pathy is a severe complication of mitomycin C when used during filtration surgery.
We wanted to know whether this complication can be controlled by a surgical reintervention yielding tight closure of the initial sclerostomy.
The detection of cytokines may elucidate the pathophysiological mechanisms that produce early systemic complications in acute interstitial (i) or necrotizing (n) pancreatitis (AP).
The increase in the level of cytokines in the blood of patients with AP may correlate with the severity of the disease.
In a prospective clinical trial from October 1992 to August 1993, 23 patients with AP were recruited and blood samples taken for cytokine detection by commercially available Elisa kits and C-reactive protein (CRP) by laser nephelometry.
Six of 11 patients with nAP died either early (n = 1) or of late septic complications.
The peak of cytokine and CRP level in the first 3 days of hospitalization was used for calculation.
The IL-6 concentration in the blood reached up to 2600 pg/ml in the 1st few days, depending on the severity of AP, and dropped to almost zero in the next days, independently of the clinical course.
The differentiation of i- versus nAP, using a cutoff line of 600 pg/ml, was correct in 20 patients [87 %, sensitivity (SE): 82 %, specificity (SP): 91 %, P < 0.001].
The blood levels of IL-8 reached a maximum of 1381 pg/ml in the 1st few days, depending on the severity of AP, and showed a correlation with the clinical course in the following days.
The peak of IL-8 blood levels indicated correctly the severity of AP in 18 out of 23 patients using a cutoff level of 200 pg/ml (accuracy: 78 %, SE: 82 %, SP: 75 %, P < 0.01).
The CRP levels increased up to a maximum of 535 mg/l and indicated the course of AP correctly in 18 out of 22 patients (SE and SP 82 %, P < 0.01).
There was no correlation between cytokine blood levels and mortality.
In the blood samples of five patients with i- or nAP, no TNF- was detectable.
The blood levels of IL-6, and to a lesser extent of IL-8 and CRP, can predict the severity and early systemic complications of AP.
The excessive rise in cytokines can be explained by the stimulation of immunological cells (macrophages, lymphocytes and endothelial cells) in the course of AP, inducing early systemic complications.
The surface area and the microporosity of bone regeneration materials influence their chemical and biological properties.
Therefore, the size of the specific surface area and the distribution of the pore diameters (pores < 1 µm) of bone regeneration materials were analyzed within this study.
The analyzed hydroxyapatites were of synthetic, bovine, and phytotroph origin.
The tricalcium phosphates and the bioglasses included only synthetic materials.
The gas adsorption of each specimen was analyzed using a volumetric N2/Kr system (ASAP 2010, Micromeritics).
Additionally, for materials with a specific surface area (> 2 m2/g) the pore size distribution was evaluated by the BJH-method.
Two of the materials evaluated astonishingly large dimensions of the specific surface area (BioOss 79.7 m2/g, Algipore new 14.6 m2/g).
A medium surface area was found for Algipore old (4.9 m2/g) and Interpore200 (2.64 m2/g).
All other included materials showed only small sizes of the specific surface area (Ceros80 1.8 m2/g, Ceros82 1.31 m2/g, Cerasorb 1.2 m2/g, Biobase 0.7 m2/g, Endobone 0.7 m2/g, Perioglas 0.6 m2/g, Allotropat50 0.23 m2/g, Biogran 0.2 m2/g).
The materials with large and medium sizes of the specific surface area evaluated the following pore diameters: BioOss 2-50 nm, Algipore new 2-100 nm, Algipore old 5-50 nm, Interpore200 2-100 nm.
Pore sizes less than 2 nm were not found in relevant numbers.
The materials BioOss, old and new Algipore, and Interpore200 contain a large interconnecting mesopore system (diameter < 1 µm).
For the materials Biobase, Endobone, Perioglas, Allotropat 50, and Biogran this cannot be assumed.
The materials Ceros80, Ceros82, and Cerasorb evaluated a specific surface area between those and might include only a small part of these interconnecting pores.
An influence of the interconnecting porosity and the different sizes of the specific surface areas on the biological behavior of the bone regeneration materials can be suggested.
The literature on the psychosocial aspects of head and neck cancer surgery from 1950 to 1995 was reviewed in four parts.
In the present Part 4 ten possibly useful targets for future research are formulated:...
Radiotherapy unequivocally has to be regarded as standard therapy in stage I and IIA/B testicular seminoma.
Using low dose abdominal irradiation tumour control rates of 95-98 % in stage I disease and 80-95 % in stage IIA/B can be achieved.
Disease specific survival reaches 100 %.
Likewise, radiotherapy is treatment of first choice in case of testicular intraepithelial neoplasia (TIN) in a solitary testis or in case of a double-sided TIN yielding safe eradication of the in-situ carcinoma of the testis.
Objectives of further clinical research in radiotherapy of testicular malignancies aim at reduction of treatment intensity in order to minimize acute and late side effects of irradiation without compromising tumour control rates.
A forty year old healthy adult man was admitted to our out-patient department because of a highly elevanted rheumatoid factor.
Since the person was planning an extended stay in Africa, we performed an extensive history, clinical and laboratory examination to rule out oligosymptomatic inflammatory diseases.
We further analyzed if the person presented genetic risk factors to develop rheumatic diseases in the future or if the presence of the rheumatoid factor could be a reaction to multiple immunizations.
Possible explanations for an elevated rheumatoid factor including the genetic risk factors are discussed.
A multifactorial etiology underlies the  majority of cases of Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Both ill-defined environmental and genetic factors contribute to the development of the disease.
Allele 4 of ApoE is a genetic risk factor.
Its presence increases the risk of developing AD.
However, presence of e4 is neither necessary nor sufficient for the disease to arise.
Apart from the common multifactorial forms of the disease, there are rare variants which are inherited as Mendelian traits.
To date three genes are known that can be  mutated in these rare forms of AD.
Of these, mutations in the gene presenilin 1 on chromosome 14 are most frequent.
In addition, mutations in the gene presenilin 2 on chromosome 1 and in the amyloid precursor protein gene (APP on chromosome 21) occur in autosomal dominant AD.
This article reviews our present knowledge of the genetics of AD and discusses its relevance for patients with AD and their relatives.
In recent years female psychoanalysts provided fertile approaches to an understanding of the mother-daughter-relationship with the conceptions of the 'lesbian complex' (Poluda-Korte), the 'symbiotic illusion' (Halberstadt-Freud), the 'higher permeability of the ego-boundaries' (Rohde-Dachser), and the 'conflict of separation-individuation which has to be resolved again and again throughout life' (Berger).
In the light of these conceptions it is hypothesized that in analyses with both participants being of equal gender (female-female psychoanalyses) a specific intensity and quality of female aggression may manifest itself when certain threshold situations of the pre-oedipal mother-daughter-relationship are revided.
Case vignettes and a literary example illustrate the risks as well as possible resolutions engendered by these early relationship dynamics, as these are reactivated in the here and now of the analyst's relationship towards her patient.
There has been a marked increase in the incidence of pelvic fractures over the last few years.
Associated injuries to the urogenital and vascular system as well as nerve injuries worsen the prognosis.
Over a five year period 126 patients with severe pelvic trauma were treated.
Out of these 39 (30.9%) sustained additional peripelvic injuries and represent the study sample.
Type B injuries according to the AO classification occurred in 16 (41%) patients, type C fractures in 23 (59%) patients.
The spleen, liver and kidney were the most frequently injured organs (58.9%), followed by urogenital lesions (46.6%), nerve injuries (25.6%) and vascular lesions (15.3%).
The most common extrapelvic lesions were thoracic injuries in 56.4% and severe head injuries (GCS<8) in 33.3%.
The mean Hannover Polytraumascore was 35.6 points, the mean Injury Severity Score 27.6 points.
Osteosnthesis was performed in 21 pelvic ring fractures (53%), eight procedures (50%) in type B fractures and 13 (56%) in type C fractures.
In type B injuries the anterior pelvic ring was stabilized with a tension band wiring in four cases, in two patients with an external fixator and with plate osteosynthesis in one case.
In type C injuries the external fixator was applied as the only stabilizing procedure in six patients.
In four cases the anterior ring was fixed with tension band wiring or plates and the dorsal aspect of the pelvic ring with sacral bars.
Three patients had their additional acetabular fracture plated through a anterior approach.
All surviving 28 patients were followed up for an average of 18 months (range 7--59 months) after the trauma.
The patients were classified using the pelvic outcome score proposed by the German Society of Trauma Surgery.
53.4% of the type B fractures showed a good clinical outcome, 47.6% a poor outcome.
15.4% with type C fractures presented with a good outcome, 84.6% with a poor outcome.
80% of the type B and 23% of the type C fractures had a good radiological outcome.
20% of type B and 77% of type C injuries had a poor radiological outcome.
Five patients (12.8%) sustained persistent urological symptoms.
Three of these had urinary dysfunction, two used permanent cystotomies due to their severe neurolgical deficit after a head injury.
Ten patients with nerve injuries at the time of trauma suffered long term neurological dysfunction of the lumbosacral plexus.
The mortality rate was 28%.
Seven patients died in the emergency room due to uncontrollable bleeding, four in the intensive care unit from multi-organ failure.
The management of complex pelvic trauma consists of fracture treatment and interdisciplinary treatment of the associated injury.
Lesions of the abdominal organs or of major vessels must be addressed first if hemodynamic instability is present.
Injuries to smaller vessels can be embolized percutaneously.
Urinary bladder ruptures are treated as an emergency, urethral lesions electively after four to six weeks .We recommend external fixation of the pelvis in the acute phase for control of both the osseous instability and control of haemorrhage through external compression.
The treatment of choice for the anterior pelvic ring is tension band wiring or plating.
If this is contraindicated due to an open fracture external fixation is the treatment of choice.
Type C fractures require posterior ring stabilization which should be postponed until four days post admission.
Dysfunction of serotonergic neurotransmission has been associated with two different psychopathological syndromes - impulsive aggressivity resulting form a lack of stimulation of the "behavior inhibition system" on the one hand and the manifestation of clinical depression and compulsive syndromes on the other.
The examination of primate behavior provides a model which may reconciliate these seemingly contradictory hypotheses.
According to primate experiments, monoaminergic depletion results in anxious and desperate behavior only if the individual has previously been exposed to social isolation stress, which in turn induces a decrease in the central serotonin turnover rate.
Young non-human primates who experience early social separation stress are anxious and fearful, while as adults they tend to be aggressive, consume excessive amounts of alcohol and are less intoxicated by alcohol intake.
These observation indicate the importance of social separation stress in the pathogenesis of alcoholism and antisocial behavior and may point to prophylactic and pharmacological treatment strategies.
The implantation of transsclerally sutured posterior chamber lenses (PCL) leads to greater trauma to the eye than endocapsular PCL implantation.
Persistent breakdown of the blood-aqueous barrier might impair the postoperative long-term prognosis.
Using laser-tyndallometry, we quantified the disorder of the barrier function during the early postoperative phase and in the long-term postoperative course for both surgical procedures.
During the first 3 postoperative days, flare values were three times higher in the group with transsclerally sutured PCL than in the conventional PCL group.
Cell counts after transscleral suture fixation (27.7 +/- 18.3/0.075 mm3) decreased slightly during the first 5 postoperative days.
In contrast, the conventional PCL group regained the preoperative level (2.5 +/- 5.1) after 3 days.
After 3 months, no significant differences in flare values and cell counts were seen between the two groups.
After implantation of transsclerally sutured posterior chamber lenses, breakdown of the blood-aqueous barrier was initially more pronounced than in conventional PCL implantation.
However, the barrier function was re-established equally in both groups in the long term.
No signs of a persistent disorder of the barrier were found.
There is clear evidence for obstructive sleep apnea as an independent cause of arterial hypertension.
We report a case of intracranial hemorrhage with systemic hypertension resistant to antihypertensive medication, which could only be adjusted after effective treatment of coexisting sleep-disordered breathing.
The 36 year old male (body mass index 31 kg/m2) was admitted to hospital three weeks before for intracranial bleeding at the left external capsule.
Diagnosis of primary hypertension was made after extensive work-up in the acute hospital.
Blood pressure was adjusted with five-fold antihypertensive medication at the time of admission to neurological rehabilitation, but was still elevated with "non-dipping" as determined by long-term measurement despite medications above the recommended dosages.
Polysomnography confirmed the diagnosis of obstructive sleep apnea.
10 days after initiation of treatment with nasal CPAP blood pressure control was easier with normal dipping at night.
Medication could be reduced during rehabilitation with further reduction after discharge.
Moderate obstructive sleep apnea appears to be the cause of severe hypertension resistant to pharmacological therapy in this patient.
The case underlines the impact of diagnosis and treatment of sleep-disordered breathing for the secondary prevention of stroke.
The possibility of a specific origin of joint infection should be considered in finding the diagnosis.
This is demonstrated in a case of tuberculosis of the hip treated in the Dept.
of Trauma Surgery in collaboration with the Medical Dept.
Microbiological and imaging examinations are essential to plan and perform a combined therapy of hip arthroplasty and concomittant medical antituberculous therapy.
In accordance to a literature review, this procedure proved successful for both eliminating the local infection and the functional outcome of the operation.
The purpose of our studies was to investigate experimentally the dose-dependent effects of extracorporeal shock waves on tendon and bone and to unveil therapeutic possibilities in tendopathies and pseudarthroses.
From January 1994 to January 1996, 18 patients underwent vitrectomy as a result of endophthalmitis.
All patients received intraocular and systemic antibiotics in accordance with the first group of patients in the Endophthalmitis Vitrectomy Study.
The aim of this retrospective study was to analyze the visual outcome of surgical treatment.
Tracheostomy is considered the airway management of choice in long-term ventilated ICU patients.
In the last few years, percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy (PDT) has been established as an attractive and safe alternative to conventional open tracheostomy.
Recently, there is another percutaneous technique according to Fantoni with translaryngeal airway access (TLT) available.
Our study seeks to evaluate TLT in terms of complications and practicability.
In 47 patients of our surgical ICU, elective TLT was performed.
Mean operative time was 9.8 +/- 10.9 (range 6-27) minutes.
Severe complications, such as bleeding, aspiration or infection of the tracheostoma have never been noted.
A slight detoriation of arterial oxygen tension occured in 25 patients intraoperatively, demanding to rise the concentration of inspired oxygen temporarily.
However, no patient became hypoxic during the procedure.Since during the procedure gas exchange may worsen, TLT should not be employed in patients whose inspired oxygen concentration exceeds 80%.
Despite the fact that severe complications associated with TLT have recently not yet been reported, physicians who perform TLT should be well-trained in the technique of conventional open tracheostomy, too.
According to our present data, TLT seems to be an attractive and safe alternative to PDT.
Nevertheless, for a definiteve evaluation of TLT, further investigations in larger groups of patients and in the long term seem to be necessary.
There are no direct associations between testosterone levels and sexual function in the aging male.
A study of 169 patients focusing on the relations of hormone levels and sexual dysfunction did not reveal associations between testosterone levels and the risk of altered sexual functions.
In volunteers, in whom a hypogonadism was generated by the application of GnRH, no alteration in sexual reactions occurred.
It is possible that other testosterone fractions are more meaningful than the total testosterone.
However, all the known fractions correlate closely.
The significance of a normal testosterone level for a normal erection has been rarely considered up to now.
In an animal experiment, the intracavernous pressure, the density of -receptors, and the PDES activity depended on normal testosterone levels.
It is not known whether different testosterone levels influence the effectiveness of treatment procedures for erectile dysfunction in humans.
In a 65 years old male patient 38 cc of a 7.45% potassium chloride-solution was inadvertently infused within 3 hours into an epidural catheter on the first postoperative day.
The epidural potassium chloride administration resulted in a paresis and painful paraesthesia of the patient's legs and a level of sensory blockade to TH 11.
Furthermore vegetative symptoms like hypertension and tachycardia were observed.
For therapy a single bolus of 40 mg dexamethasone was administered intravenously followed by an epidural infusion of sodiumchloride 0,9% 99 cc/h for several hours.
About 6 hours after the start of infusion all symptoms had disappeared.
It is proposed that the use of colour-coded epidural catheter devices and coloured electrolyte solutions as well as infusion-pumps with a larger reservoir that reduce the frequency of syringe changes would be helpful in avoiding such complications.
This paper reviews respiratory muscle/circulation interaction in congestive heart failure.
Respiratory muscle dysfunction consisting of both reduced pressure - generating capacity and reduced endurance is well documented in these patients.
The mechanisms underlying its development and the potential consequences especially in the development of dyspnea are then presented.
Not only are respiratory muscles dysfunctioning in these patients, but under specific circumstances they can impede the circulation, such as during weaning from mechanical ventilation.
The underlying pathophysiology and the theoretical model explaining this interesting interaction is finally discussed.
Traumatic, perilunate dislocations are rare lesions, and one third of them are associated with perilunate dislocation fractures.
Unfortunately, one quarter of all such fractures go unrecognized, although conventional X-rays can allow their diagnosis in as many as 48% of cases, which can be improved by performing CT or bone scan in addition to 62% and 95%, repectively.
Forced extension seems to be the most frequent trauma mechanism.
The treatment consists of open reduction, predominantly of the lunate bone, and internal fixation.
Huge carpal fragments such as the scaphoid and capitatum are ideally fixed by means of compression screws, while smaller fragments can only be aligned with Kirschner wires.
Osteochondral chips are best reinserted into the bone by means of anchoring systems.
In cases of complex carpal instability supplementary stabilization may be achieved with an external fixator.
The best results on the Martini evaluation score were achieved in simple perilunate dislocations that were reset early by open surgical procedures and were accompanied by minimal involvement of/damage to different tissues.
Although we had a nonunion rate of approximately 20% in our series of 11 mixed traumatized patients in all, the Martini classification of hand function seems to be a reliable score system for practical clinical follow-ups.
Maternal anxiety in the event of a false positive result is an argument against universal hearing screening in newborns.
The aim of this study was to investigate the mothers' attitudes towards neonatal hearing screening and their anxiety in case of a positive result.
Interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon- (IFN-) were both administered subcutaneously (SC) in combination with intravenously (IV) applied 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) for the treatment of patients with metastasized renal cell carcinoma (RCC).
The therapy protocol consisted of a treatment cycle of 8 weeks, which could be carried out in an outpatient regimen.
The IFN- was given in each of the 8 weeks (6-9 MU/m2 once to three times weekly SC) combined sequentially with IL-2 (5-20 MU/m2 three times weekly SC for 4 weeks) and 5-FU (750 mg/m2 IV weekly for 4 weeks).
Among the 30 consecutive patients treated, in 2 cases a complete, and in 9 cases a partial, remission was achieved in patients with mostly lung and skeletal metastases, with an overall objective response rate of 37 %.
Mean response duration was 8 months (range 3-18 months).
A stable state of the disease lasting 3-18 months was observed in 10 cases.
The side effects were only slight and corresponded to toxicity grade I (n = 2), grade II (n = 22) and grade III (n = 6), according to the WHO classification.
In conclusion, this triple-drug biochemotherapy demonstrated significant clinical effectiveness comparable with that of an aggressive IL-2 treatment regimen (applied IV), but without its high toxicity.
Compression therapy was employed for 4 weeks 20 patients with chronic venous insufficiency stage CVI I and CVI II according to Widmer's classification.
Compression bandaging for 2 weeks was followed by compression stockings for 2 more weeks.
The cutaneous microcirculation was evaluated before therapy, after 2 weeks and after finishing compression therapy after 4 weeks.
Marked improvement in symptoms such as pain and itching was observed after 4 weeks, along with a significant reduction in lower limb volume.
Video capillary microscopy revealed an increase in capillary density associated with a decrease in capillary diameter and pericapillary halo diameter.
Compression treatment achieves at least part of its effect by improving the function of the skin microcirculation.
The efficacy of bandaging and stockings was similar.
The splanchnic perfusion is reduced early in the course of any shock.
The mucosa of the gut suffers most as it experiences a high oxygen demand even in the steady state.
The specific arrangement of the micro vessels within the villus of the mucosa exposes the tip of the villus at the highest risk for ischemia, particularly in low flow states.
As a consequence the integrity of the mucosal layer is compromised and dysfunction of the mucosal barrier may allow bacteria and toxins to translocate from the gut lumen.
Activation of leukocytes and stimulation of cytokine synthesis may comprise a sustained inflammatory response syndrome.
So far there is a good body of evidence that the splanchnic region may play an important role in the pathophysiological sequence from shock to organ dysfunction.
As pacing impedance is inversely related to pacing current, the increase of pacing impedance additionally decreases pacing current.
Whether the impedance measurement at implantation predicts the outcome during follow-up, was studied in 87 patients who received the VDD-single lead UniPass 425 connected to the pacemaker Unity (Sulzer Intermedics).
The impedance changes between implantation and 6 months follow-up were assessed for each patient.
Similar impedance values were defined, if the two measurements were within a range <= -100 to +100 .
Six-months impedance was lower or higher compared to implantation, if the difference exceeded > -100 or > +100 .
At implantation, impedance was 535  +/-  98  (range: 333-811 ) and significantly increased to 604  +/-  160  (range: 361-1150 ) after 6 months.
Mean difference between the two measurements was 69  +/-  162  (range: -336 bis +560 ).
Similar impedance had 43 (implantation: 527  +/-  75 , 6 months: 531  +/-  87 ), lower values 11 (implantation: 660  +/-  83 , 6 months: 494  +/-  73 ) and higher values 33 patients (implantation: 503  +/-  99 , 6 months: 735  +/-  168 ).
Compared to the patients with similar impedance patients with lower impedance had a significantly higher impedance values at implantation.
Conclusions: Pacing impedance increased significantly within 6 months after implantation.
Pacing impedance changed > 100  in 51% of the patients.
The long-term follow-up of pacing impedance can be predicted generally, but not for the individual patient.
Endothelin has both vasoconstrictor and mitogenic properties and might, therefore, play a role in the pathogenesis of acute coronary syndromes and coronary atherosclerosis.
The aim of the study was to characterize the mechanisms and kinetics of cardiac endothelin-1 (ET-1) release following a local endothelial injury during PTCA (group A) and after sustained myocardial ischemia (group B).
Additionally, the precision of agreement between measurements in coronary sinus and peripheral venous samples should be analyzed.
Since first described in the early 1990s, coronary magnetic resonance angiography (MRA) has evolved as a promising noninvasive modality for imaging of the coronary arteries and evaluation of coronary artery disease.
Despite technical limitations, coronary MRA has established value for imaging of anomalous coronary artery and assessment of bypass graft patency.
Current research focuses on the development of optimal respiratory compensation strategies, improved spatial and temporal resolution and faster acquisition of image data.
The accurate detection of stenoses and assessment of the severity of coronary atherosclerosis is presently being evaluated with large multicenter studies.
With further technique enhancements and more clinical experience, coronary MRA is likely to become the dominant noninvasive modality in clinical cardiology.
Which consequences can be ascribed to the intraarticular position of devices in the operative treatment of a slipped capital femoral epiphysis?
Which steps are to define as a standard of a careful procedure?
A digitised three-dimensional (3-D) image of the face has many valuable uses.
These include accurate measurements of facial morphology, clinical documentation and objective analyses of surgical procedures.
A new system presented here, based on stereophotogrammetric techniques, instantaneously captures digitised images using high-resolution cameras.
It has an accuracy of more than 0.5 mm RMS and creates the 3-D image from approximately 20,000 points.
The principles of the image capturing are demonstrated and the potential uses discussed.
Surgical changes of the soft tissue in two patients following orthognathic surgery are also illustrated.
This new capturing and measurement system provides a simple method of determining 3-D changes in soft tissue following surgery and is a useful tool for clinical purposes.
A potential impact of tricyclic antidepressants on oral anticoagulation is controversial.
Phenprocoumon - the most commonly used anticoagulant in Germany - is rarely considered in clinical trials.
In the present study, a potential drug-drug interaction between phenprocoumon and tricyclics, causing an alteration in prothrombinemic effects, has been investigated.
To analyse the possible injuries of vertebral segments, especially the disc, after unstable thoracolumbar fractures stabilised with AO internal fixator, we performed magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the traumatised region after implant removal.
There were two aspects of disc degeneration (DD): (1) biochemical changes and (2) structural damage.
MRI detects biochemical processes as one aspect of DD that is often small even in the presence of greater structural damage of the nucleus pulposus caused by fracture.
None of the patients presented with structural failure of the anulus fibrosus, which is the essential structural component of the vertebral segments with regard to stability.
We observed biochemical changes more often in the lower of the two fracture-adjacent discs and alterations of discal shape more often in the upper of the two, whereas loss of height concerned both discs to approximately the same degree.
The supporters of upper-disc resection in thoracolumbar fractures justify their procedure among other things with the structural disc damage, such as alteration of shape and loss of height (altogether more frequent in the upper disc).
Our observations that a disc with a structurally altered nucleus pulposus can be biochemically intact and can show an intact anulus fibrosus are arguments in favour of disc preservation.
With regard to the upper disc, the widespread opinion that complete and regular disc damage requires a resection has to be revised.
The question of whether the lower disc should be resected more often because of its greater biochemical changes cannot be answered by the present study alone.
Besides the excellent static information in all anatomical structures of the vertebral column available by MRI, a repeat examination in a prone position yields dynamic information on the spinal cord in the case of suspected dorsal adhesions.
To study the frequency and clinical aspects of cold urticaria in Central Europe, patient data from a university dermatology clinic and a private dermatology office between 1984-94 were analysed and the patients reexamined if possible.
The incidence of cold urticaria was found to be 0.05%.
Of the 56 patients with cold urticaria (31 women, 25 men), 49 had idiopathic cold urticaria.
The mean age was 41.0 +/- 15.6 year, the mean duration of disease 7.9 +/- 5.8 years.
Atopy was found in 46.5% of patients, and 23.2% of the patients suffered from other types of urticaria (cholinergic, chronic idiopathic, dermographic, aquagenic and heat-induced).
Laboratory examinations were only rarely abnormal.
44 patients were treated with antihistamines, with generally only moderate symptomatic improvement.
Treatment with antibiotics (penicillin, 1-2 mil IU/d over 2-4 weeks, n=18, or tetracyclines, 2 g/d over 2 weeks, n=10) induced full remission in 13 patients and symptomatic improvement in 8.
During an average of 6.5 year-follow-up, 20 of 43 symptomatic patients went into spontaneous remission.
The good therapeutic response to antibiotics in this study underlines the need for a better elucidation of the cause of cold urticaria, in view of possible infectious causes.
Background: Since its first implantation as an eyeball replacement in the United States in 1985, hydroxyapatite has been rarely used as an orbital implant in Germany.
The aim of the study was to collect data on long-term tolerance, postoperative complications and the cosmetic end results.
A 37-year-old woman had intensive care for 105 days and artificial ventilation for 72 days because of a lung transplantation and multiple postoperative complications.
She developed severe heterotopic ossification of both shoulders, the right elbow and both hip joints.
Owing to complete joint stiffness, she was immobilized and unable to eat or drink without help.
Operative treatment was performed in two procedures.
The right shoulder and right elbow were operated on first; the right hip and later the left hip were operated on after recovery from the previous surgical procedures.
After 22 months, there was a good functional result; the patient took part in all activities of daily life and was pain-free.
The present knowledge on heterotopic ossifications is summarized, as well as possible prophylactic measurements.
Background: Atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) is one of the most common forms of supraventricular tachycardia in the pediatric population.
Patients and methods: 41 children with a mean age of 9.6 (3.7-16) years with recurrent atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia (AVNRT) refractory to medical treatment (n=38) and recurrent syncope (n=3) underwent electrophysiologic (EP) study.
In all patients dual AV-nodal physiology could be demonstrated during EP study and typical form of AVNRT (mean heart rate 220/min) could be induced by programmed atrial stimulation.
A steerable 7 F ablation catheter was placed at the inferoparaseptal region of the tricupid valve annulus close to the orifice of the coronary sinus with the intention to record a late fractionated local atrial electrogram during sinus rhythm.
Starting at this point radiofrequency current (500 kHz) with a target temperature of 70 °C was delivered with the intention to ablate the slow pathway.
If a slowly accelerated junctional rhythm (<120/min) occurred during energy discharge, programmed atrial stimulation was repeated.
Otherwise radiofrequency current was delivered step by step up to a septal position next to the tricuspid valve annulus.
Slow pathway ablation was defined as lack of evidence of dual AV nodal pathways during repeated atrial stimulation.
Slow pathway modulation was defined as maximal one atrial echoimpulse after ablation.
Results: The number of energy applications ranged from 1-19 (median 6).
In 35/41 patients slow pathway ablation could be achieved; in six patients the slow pathway was modulated.
In none of the patients permanent high grade AV block was observed.
During follow-up (mean 4.1 years) two patients had a recurrent episode of AVNRT after slow pathway modulation.
All other patients are still free of AVNRT without medical treatment.
Conclusion: Selective radiofrequency current ablation/modulation of the slow pathway is a safe and curative treatment of AVNRT in young patients.
Since we had the impression that there was an increase in blood loss during mammaplasties after a change in the anesthesiology department responsible, we conducted a study to compare 28 cases from each anesthesiology department.
All operations were carried out by the first author in succession using the same operative technique.
The two groups did not differ in age, BMI, operative time, weight of resected tissue or preoperative laboratory.
Blood loss was calculated from the perioperative drop in hemoglobin and patient's blood volume.
Blood pressure, heart rate, medication and intravenous fluid supply were obtained from the anesthetic protocols.
Results (means and standard deviations): Group I (n = 28) and [Group II (n = 28)]: total resected tissue 1862  +/-  928 g [1912  +/-  791 g]; Hb-preop.
13.6  +/-  0.9 g/dl [13.8  +/-  0.8 g/dl]; Hb-postop.
10.8  +/-  1.3 g/dl [9.7  +/-  1.3 g/dl] P = 0.006; Blood loss 970  +/-  339 ml [1443  +/-  456 ml] P < 0.001.
After exclusion of surgical or biological causes hemodynamic effects of the anesthetic techniques were suspected as the reason for the significant difference in blood loss.
MAP was elevated only initially, while the heart rate was considerably elevated throughout the procedures in group II.
During anesthesia with nitrous oxide and enflurane, the dose of enflurane in group I could be limited to 0.3-0.5 % after initial i. v. administration of 60 to 100 µg sufentanil, while in group II without opioids doses of 0.5-2 % were required.
The well-known dose-dependend effect of enflurane on the peripheral vascular tone was not masked by vasoconstrictors at the operative site.
Conclusions: Blood loss during mammaplasties can be affected considerably by the anaesthetic technique - even without deliberate hypotension.
Sufentanil can indirectly reduce the blood loss by lowering the necessary dose of enflurane.
Blood transfusions can be avoided at mammaplasties.
Continuous epidural infusion of bupivacaine with the opioid fentanyl represents an effective analgesic method in the therapy of strong postoperative pain after major surgery.
Preparation of the required infusion solution in syringes with a volume of 50 ml immediately prior to administration is routinely performed by nursing staff in Germany.
The effort required for the preparation is associated with logistical and pharmaceutical difficulties.
The preparation of a mixture of bupivacaine hydrochloride 0.06% and fentanyl 0.0002% in 250 ml infusion bags at the pharmacy of the University Hospital Mainz is described.
To determine the physicochemical stability, the concentration of bupivacaine-HCl and fentanyl was assessed using HPLC over a period of 32 days; in addition the pH values were determined.
After 32 days 95% of the bupivacaine hydrochloride and fentanyl baseline values were recorded.
The pH baseline value had decreased from 5.48-5.52 to 0.5-0.7 units.
The measured values confirm the physicochemical stability of the mixture of bupivacaine hydrochloride 0.06% and fentanyl 0.0002% over a period of 32 days.
The infusion bag can be stored for 4 weeks at room temperature.
The programming of a cochlear implant speech processor used by young children is often difficult, especially when the stimulus level associated with maximum auditory loudness (MAL) needs to be determined.
Excessively high stimulation should be avoided as this can have a traumatic effect.
The aim of this study was to determine if a relationship exists between the intraoperatively determined electrical stapedius reflex threshold (ESRT) and the postoperatively determined MAL and hearing threshold for 27 patients, each having one of three implant types.
The question of whether the ESRT provides a practical technique to simplify, improve and accelerate speech processor programming was investigated.
For the monopolar stimulation mode used for the Med-El and Clarion implant systems, the average MAL and threshold was expressed as a percentage of the average ESRT across all electrodes.
For the "common ground" stimulation mode used for the Nucleus implant system, a parabolic transformation was used to relate MAL and ESRT to one another.
These transformations between MAL values calculated from the ESRT and the actual MAL values, determined psychoacoustically, diverged considerably from one another.
Therefore, it was not possible to determine the MAL from the ESRT with certainty.
The ESRT does, however, provide a means to estimate an approximate upper boundary for the MAL, apart from its use to control implant function.
The determination of the exact MAL will still need to be determined using behavioural techniques.
Movements and vibrations of intraocular structures can be observed during vitrectomy with mechanical cutting systems.
We experimentally compared these intraocular motion artifacts between mechanical and erbium:YAG laser vitrectomy.
Spontaneous rupture und false aneurysms of the non-arteriosclerotic aorta are rare.
We report on a 53-year-old patient with false aneurysm due to covered rupture of the thoraco abdominal aorta following sarcoidosis initially repaired by semicircumferential aortic end-to-end anastomosis.
After 6 months local recurrence occurred and the afflicted aorta was replaced by autologous arterial graft, transferring the right iliac artery as aortic patch.
The iliac reconstruction was performed by PTFE interposition.
There was no specific therapy for sarcoidosis.
At 1 year follow-up there was no recurrence and the patient is free of symptoms.
In this biomechanical study the implanted Unreamed Humeral Nail (UHN) has been tested concerning bending and torsional stiffnesses.
In literature other intramedullary implants have been critisized for insufficient rotatory stability especially in transverse and short oblique fractures of the humeral shaft.
This study examined, whether the implanted UHN, as well as the UHN implanted with interfragmentary compression through a specific compression device, is able to augment torsional stiffness significantly.
To evaluate bending and torsional stiffnesses, the UHN has been compared biomechanically to the Russell-Taylor humeral nail (RT) in paired mid-shaft osteotomized cadaveric humeri.
Identic paired comparison has been performed with the UHN without and UHN with interfragmentary compression.
In anterior-posterior, as well as medio-lateral direction stiffness under four-point-bending is significantly higher in stabilizing with the RT.
Under torsional loading with moments of 4 Nm, 6 Nm and 8 Nm the UHN reached more than the double torsional stiffness.
The RT, which is only dynamically interlocked, owns a high initial "play" between bolts and nail itself.
Through additional interfragmentary compression stiffness of the UHN under four-point-bending in anterior-posterior, as well as medio-lateral direction augments significantly.
Also under torsional loading with moments of 4 Nm, 6 Nm und 8 Nm torsional stiffness increases with interfragmentary compression significantly.
In comparison to other biomechanical studies of different autorship it is clear, that this statically interlocked intramedullary nailing of the humeral shaft is superior to non-statically interlocked types of nailing concerning their stabilizing potency in torsion and serves especially for fracture types, which are critically under rotation, as transverse or short oblique humeral shaft fractures.
While the different national health systems merge structurally, cost expansion in health care is a global challenge.
Structural reforms have been developed during recent years in the USA which can be summarized as "managed care".
They are characterized by the evolution of an economically orientated system, in which units of medical therapy are generally handled like conventional economical goods.
In managed-care models, patients are deliberately directed to the most economic forms of therapy.
The spectrum of medical interventions as well as diagnostic or therapeutic patterns are predefined by a system of contracted guidelines, which lead to a standardization of processes.
Financing and medical executive responsibilities fuse.
The autonomy of medical decisions is clearly reduced to enforce an integrated and economically oriented steering of the health system.
Leadership is no longer primarily confined to doctors or scientists.
It is progressively shifting to financing institutions, managing directors or insurance companies.
Structural changes currently are expanding rapidly in the U. S. and have meanwhile led to marked regional reductions of medical costs.
Nevertheless, the US model is still far more expensive compared to the German system.
Historical development, current concepts of US-managed care, its potential influence and general applicability to the German situation are discussed in an overview.
On the subject of natriuretic peptides there is a great deal of controversy, and intensive research efforts have been made studying their effects on electrolyte homeostasis.
In the early 1980s, a peptide that caused diuresis, natriuresis, and had a relaxant effect on vascular smooth muscle was discovered independently by several groups.
This was the breakthrough for the identification of natriuretic peptides, followed by the characterisation of the amino-acid sequences of several species.
Synthesis of the peptide, cloning of the encoding gene, identification and characterisation of specific receptors, as well as the development of antibodies and radioimmunoassays were rapidly accomplished.
Research on the immunohistochemistry of cardiodilatin/atrial natriuretic peptide (CDD/ANP) and the regulation of CDD/ANP gene expression led to detection of the peptide in extra-atrial tissues.
Later on, two new peptides were discovered brain natriuretic peptide (BNP) and C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP).
These peptides share structural features with CDD/ANP with regard to their 17-amino-acid-exhibiting loop bridged by a disulfide bond.
Another recently discovered peptide is urodilatin (URO), a renal-borne new member of A-type natriuretic peptide.
URO was isolated from human urine and consists of the same sequence as CDD/ANP, containing the 17-amino-acid residue loop of the circulating hormone with 4 additional amino acids located at the NH2-terminus of the peptide.
Regarding physiological actions, data strongly support a close association between URO and urinary sodium excretion.
The application of URO in animals revealed a stronger diuresis and natriuresis with a lower influence on arterial blood pressure compared to CDD/ANP-99-126.
These results were encouraging for the use of URO in clinical trials as a tool to prevent acute renal failure (ARF) in patients following heart transplantation and for treatment of incipient ARF in patients following liver transplantation.
Summarising the results of these two studies, URO represents a new approach for not only prevention, but also for treatment of ARF following organ transplantation.
This opens up new possibilities for the treatment of ARF of other origins in intensive care medicine.
Dermatomyositis in a 7 year old girl was diagnosed two months prior to admission to our pediatric rheumatology program.
Serological and molecular biology methods were used to investigate the evidence for a recent coxsackie-B-virusinfection.
Objectives Wide approach to the posterior aspect of the scapula for internal fixation of unstable fractures of neck of scapula and glenoid.
The guideline "Joint Swelling" is addressed to primary care physicians - general practitioners, internists or orthopedists without special experience in rheumatology.
It provides a framework for interviewing patients, as well as for physical, laboratory and imaging examinations and for selection of treatment appropriate to the level of primary care.
Situations which call for urgent evaluation and criteria for referral to rheumatologists are described.
The appendix contains comments on signs and symptoms to differentiate arthralgia from joint swelling and on the diagnostic value of a history of joint swelling without confirmation by the physician.
Further recommendations for the evaluation of patient history and physical and technical examinations are given in a tabular form.
The significance of laboratory and imaging procedures is discussed.
Introduction: Bile duct complications after laparoscopic cholecystectomy occur twice to three times more frequently than after an open procedure.
Four different types of lesions may be differentiated by the Siewert classification: postoperative bile fistulas (type I), late strictures (type II), tangential injuries of the bile duct (type III) and defect lesions (type IV).
The diagnostic and therapeutic management is demonstrated in relation to our own experience and the literature.
Methods: Eleven patients (median age 43.8  +/-  17.2) with bile duct complications after laparoscopic cholecystectomy were operatively treated between November 1993 and December 1998.
Nine patients (four type-II lesions, five type-IV lesions) were referred from another hospital; 2 defect lesions out of 410 laparoscopic cholecystectomies (0.5 %) were documented in our own patient group.
Results: Four patients with late strictures were operatively treated with a hepaticocholedochostomy (n = 2) or hepaticojejunostomy (n = 2) after 14.3  +/-  8.4 months and were discharged from hospital after 10.6  +/-  3.8 days.
In both cases with type-IV lesion and a short defect, an end-to-end anastomosis was successful (hospital stay 11.6  +/-  1.0 days).
However, a retrocolic Roux-Y end-to-side hepaticojejunostomy was perfomed in all cases with a larger defect (n = 5; hospital stay 14.8  +/-  2.0 days).
The two defect lesions in our own group were detected by intraoperative cholangiography and immediately treated after conversion either with hepaticocholedocho-stomy or hepaticojejunostomy (hospital stay 11.2  +/-  0.6 days).
Conclusions: The incidence of bile duct complications after laparoscopic cholecystectomy might be kept down by anatomic preparation, selective intraoperative cholangiography and early consideration of conversion to open procedure.
The clinical course after biliary tract injury can be positively influenced only by a standard diagnostic and operative procedure and by an early transfer to a specialized center.
In the last years the incidence of renal cell carcinoma diagnosis increased about 15-20 %.
The main aim of this study was to analyse the reason of the increase of incidence.
In the present autopsy series comprising 23.801 autopsies the percentage of patients who died of renal cell carcinoma is 1,77 % in Jena and 1,55 % in Königgrätz (200.000 inhabitants each).
Over this time the incidence of renal cell carcinoma in autopsies has increased.
With the advent of atypical antipsychotics, quality of life for patients with schizophrenia has improved significantly.
The positive effects are based not only on the compliance-enhancing reduction of extrapyramidal side effects but also due to improved cognitive function and social integration, shorter duration, and overall reduction of hospital treatment.
The mortality of perioperative myocardial infarction is still high and according to recently published data amounts to 17 to 42%.
In the seventies introduction of thrombolytic therapy has led to a dramatic reduction in mortality of non-perioperative myocardial infarction.
However, in the perioperative situation thrombolytic therapy remains to be problematic in most cases because of expected severe bleeding complications.
In the last 4-6 years acute-PTCA has been established in the therapy of acute myocardial infarction.
Up to date no data are available concerning the effect of acute-PTCA on mortality of perioperative myocardial infarction.
Nevertheless it can be assumed, that acute-PTCA will lead to a considerable reduction in mortality of perioperative myocardial infarction.
Therefore, in patients with significant perioperative myocardial infarction immediate coronary angiography and, if indicated, acute-PTCA should be performed.
In principle, thrombolytic therapy is considered to be contraindicated in the intra- or postoperative situation.
However, if coronary angiography and PTCA are not possible, thrombolysis might be taken into consideration, in particular if the expected bleeding complications are small in relation to the expected benefit of thrombolysis.
Since acute-PTCA has been shown to remarkably reduce mortality in patients with cardiogenic shock after acute myocardial infarction, this group of patients should be especially considered.
Medical theories and practices concerning illness and health in old age as well as several aspects of society that do influence the aging process are described from a historical perspective integrating classical antiquity, middle ages, and modern times.
From the present state of research it is distinguished between "primary illnesses in old age" and chronical diseases which might principally also begin in younger ages but take a different course in old age.
Even if the frequency of disease and multimorbidity is increasing, negative stereotypes of the aging process have to be invalidated.
Advances in medical sciences are a good pre-condition for increasing physical and mental health in old age.
The analysis of wall motion abnormalities with dobutamine stress echocardiography is an established method for the detection of myocardial ischemia.
With ultrafast magnetic resonance tomography, the application of identical stress protocols as used for echocardiography is possible.
Transvaginal ultrasound provides an early and accurate technique to assess first trimester pregnancy.
Beginning with the demonstration of an intrauterine gestational sac, sonography enables further evaluation of normal pregnancy development, such as identification of the embryo, visualization of the yolk sac, and the presence of fetal cardiac activity as a reassurance of fetal viability.
Furthermore it allows closed sonographic monitoring of early intrauterine pregnancy and distinction between normal and abnormal development of pregnancy.
A prediction in terms of pregnancy outcome can be made regarding pregnancy complications or specific risks like vaginal bleeding, the demonstration of intrauterine hematoma, advanced maternal age, early growth delay or fetal bradycardia.
Because of the marked heterogeneity of patient groups and the diverse causes of obstruction, surgical therapy of the small-bowel ileus is difficult to standardize.
A homogeneous strategy of intraoperative handling of the obstructed bowel (decompression, endoluminal splinting) as well as abdominal closure would be desirable.
Adhesiolysis remains the most common procedure.
Small bowel plication is still used by a minority of surgeons with the Noble's technique replaced by the Child-Phillips' technique and its modifications.
However, as a result of the lack of controlled studies, there is no large body of evidence available to support the use of plication, long tubes or any other specific surgical intervention.
This is an important task for the future, especially in view of incidence and economic importance of small bowel-ileus.
Purpose: The purpose of our study was to determine the value of MRI in monitoring laser-induced interstitial thermotherapy (LITT) of cerebral neoplasms.
A 70-year-old woman with severely symptomatic hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy was unresponsive to drug treatment.
She had recurrent ventricular tachyarrhythmias and syncope and was at high risk for sudden death; a dual chamber pacemaker defibrillator (DDD-ICS) was implanted.
Her initial left ventricular outflow tract gradient was 80 mmHg and fell to 40 mmHg during dual-chamber pacing at an atrial ventricular delay of 140 ms.
In the follow-up over six months she was asymptomatic with respect to angina pectoris; ventricular tachycardias could be successfully terminated by antitachycardia pacing or by shocks.
A dual chamber pacemaker defibrillator is an important therapeutic option for patients with symptomatic hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy and ventricular tachyarrhythmias.
Morbihan's disease was first reported as a distinct entity in 1957 by Degos, describing a chronic persistent erythema and oedema of the upper half of the face.
Such conditions have been noted in the literature designated as chronic lymphoedema or solid persistent facial oedema in acne or rosacea.
The characteristic features are a chronic course, a typical clinical picture, lack of specific laboratory and histological findings and refractoriness to therapeutic measures.
Paediatric cardiac transplantation (pHTX) has gained widespread acceptance as a therapy in end-stage myocardial failure and some forms of congenital heart disease, particularly hypoplastic left heart syndrome (HLHS).
The major problems to the anaesthesiologist in these patients are induction of anaesthesia in infants with HLHS and treatment of pulmonary hypertension in the early post-bypass period.
Objective: Thirty years ago, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) was primarily developed for otherwise healthy individuals who experienced sudden cardiac arrest.
Today, CPR is widely viewed as an emergency procedure that can be attempted on any person who undergoes a cessation of cardiorespiratory function.
Therefore, the appropriateness of CPR has been questioned as a matter of the outcome, the patient's preferences, and the cost.
The objective of this article is to analyse ethical issues in prehospital resuscitation.
Arguments: CPR is bound by moral considerations that surround the use of any medical treatment.
According to Beauchamp and Childress, the hierarchy of justification in biomedical ethics consists of ethical theories, principles, rules, and particular judgements and actions.
The decision to start CPR is based on the medical judgement that a person is suffering from circulatory arrest.
The decision is justified by the moral rule that the victim of a cardiac arrest has the right to survive and to receive CPR.
Moral rules are more specific to contexts and are based on ethical principles.
The principle of beneficence means the provision of benefits for the promotion of welfare.
Talking about beneficence in resuscitation means once again reporting stories of success, as many victims of pre- and in-hospital sudden death have been saved in the past.
Nevertheless, resuscitative efforts still remain unsuccessful in the majority of cases, involving the principle of nonmaleficence.
There is potential harm in CPR.
Survivors may recover cardiac function, but sustain severe hypoxic brain damage, at worst surviving without awakening for months or years.
In particular, post-traumatic CPR is associated with an extremely poor outcome, leading to the issue of futility.
However, futility should be defined in a strict fashion, as there might be an individual chance of survival.
The principle of respect for autonomy means the right of a patient to accept or reject medical treatment, which continues in emergency conditions and after the patient has lost consciousness.
The time frame in CPR requires medical decision-making within seconds, and CPR is usually initiated without the patient's involvement.
If the patient's wish's can be ascertained later on, life-sustaining therapies might be withdrawn at that time.
Terminally ill but still competent patients should be encouraged to write a no-CPR document, which does not deny patients relief from severe symptoms, but might facilitate withholding resuscitative efforts at the scene.
The principle of justice affects priorities in the allocation of health care resources.
The decision made for a particular patient might delay or prevent emergency treatment in other patients who could receive greater benefit.
Conclusions: The standard of care remains the prompt initiation of CPR.
However, ethical principles such as beneficene, nonmaleficence, autonomy, and justice have to be applied in the unique setting of emergency medicine.
Physicians have to consider the therapeutic efficacy of CPR, the potential risks, and the patient's preferences.
Acting within the context of the therapeutic process is often equated with acting-out.
Subtile behaviour, too, as a part of the "complex system of sending and receiving unconscious signals" (Sandler) which serve for the patient to induce behavior of the transference object in the analyst or fulfilling his unconscious wishes is seen as acting-out or microacting-out (Treuniet).
However, this delicate acting has no meaning, it is not symbolic or communicative action.
It is aimed at inducing effects and interactions.
It appears both on the side of the analyst and of the patient and is part of the unconscious communication in the therapeutic process.
Diverse interactive means and ways will be demonstrated, how the analyst is moved to unnoticed acting and to handling the patient in an unnoticed manner in a certain way.
The acting-reactions of the analyst may have the character of interpretations, by which he unintentionally demonstrates, in what a way he understands the patient.
Background: The therapy of phimosis is circumcision.
Since many years it has been discussed, whether phimosis is treatable with local estrogen application analogous to the treatment of labial synechia in girls.
This conservative treatment depends on the presence of estrogen receptors (er-alpha) in male prepuce-cells.
Findings in previous investigations have indicated that contrast-enhanced colour Doppler can be used to improve the demonstration of characteristic features of neovascularization in malignancies.
However, the quantification of the increase in colour Doppler signals after Levovist in the cited study relied only on descriptive criteria defined by the investigator, resulting in a subjective scoring system.
A computer-assisted method for quantitative analysis of colour pixel density is a novel approach for objective assessment of colour Doppler signal after contrast media administration.
After microbubble contrast medium injection in 47 patients, carcinomas and benign lesions behaved differently regarding degree, onset and duration of Doppler enhancement.
However, the high interindividual variability and the temporal variations of the Doppler signal still limit the value of these criteria for prospective diagnosis.
Rapid image-acquisition techniques are needed in order to apply the necessary mathematical processing before the contrast kinetics can be used for diagnostic purposes.
Recent studies have shown that increased intraocular pressure following keratoplasty may cause progressive endothelial cell loss and thereby lead to early transplant failure.
This study examined risk groups for development of postoperative glaucoma and thereby transplant failure.
Dysphagia is a common complaint following surgical intervention in the oral cavity and hypopharynx, often leading to prolonged postoperative recovery.
Videofluoroscopy allows detailed visualization of deglutition, demonstrating the morphology as well as the functional aspects.
Therefore, videofluoroscopy provides the basis for further therapeutic management.
We discuss the pathology of deglutition in 19 patients recovering from tumor surgery of the oro- and hypopharynx.
In most cases the results demonstrated severe impairment of both the oral and pharyngeal phase of deglutition.
Our data emphasize the importance of the oral phase of deglutition for preparation and initiation of the following phases.
People who suffer a stroke most often experience a major crisis in their lives.
This leads to psychological problems which are likely to influence the patient's life satisfaction, long-term rehabilitation outcome, and quality of life as much as the physical consequences caused by the stroke.
The patient's ability to accept the new reality created by a disability as a part of their future life is therefore essential.
This necessitates an individual coping strategy in the center of which is a mourning process, which unfolds in the same way as other experiences of vital threat, e.g.
confrontation with one's own dying.
Different stages of mourning that can also be found in stroke patients are nonacceptance of the facts, erupting emotions, parting with the former and finding of a new self as well as new perspectives for one's future.
Whether a coping process is successful does not depend on the type of the defense mechanisms or stages, but essentially on their persistence.
It is the task of the therapeutical team to support this process by applying a basic therapeutic behavior, stage-consistent interventions and a positive feedback.
A failed process of coping may be one of the causes of the high prevalence of psychological disorders like depression and anxiety disorders in patients having sufferd a stroke.
A 63-year-old woman developed a pruritic exanthema on the extremities after one hour of work in her garden pond in Planegg, Southern Bavaria.
As the appropriate vectors (ducks and snails) were present, we made the tentative diagnosis of cercarial dermatitis (swimmer's itch).
By different serological methods (cercarial fluorescent antibody test, cercarial Hüllen reaction, circumoval precipitin test) antibodies against cercariae could be demonstrated in the serum of the patient 14 days later.
Cercarial dermatitis appears worldwide, but in Central Europe the disease is often not recognized.
The current adjustment of cochlear implant (CI) speech processors is based on a knowledge of the lower and upper limits (T- and C-levels) for electrical stimulus currents.
These data are usually acquired from subjective classifications of individual patients.
In cases with non-reliable patient responses, objective methods are necessary.
Especially for the estimation of correct T-levels, auditory evoked potentials (AEP) can be applied, since they allow the determination of response thresholds in a frequency-specific manner.
By determining the AEP of different latencies, late cortical responses can be registered almost without artifact contamination.
These patients have been examined in 20 patients provided with 22- or 8-channel CI-systems (Nucleus or Med-El implants).
In all cases, clear responses and clearly discernible threshold transitions could be detected.
By making use of acoustical stimulation in a free sound field, subjective hearing threshold and the T-levels of electrical stimulation could be verified.
Since late responses are generated in the primary auditory cortex, their assessment permits a nearly integral functional control of the aided hearing system.
To date, no problems have occured from maturation or attentional effects in either pediatric or adult patients.
The applicability in very young children remains to be explored.
Laparoscopic gastric banding has become a common procedure in bariatric surgery.
Early as well as late complications are, in comparison to conventional techniques, rare.
Complications arising from the operative technique are: perforation, early pouch dilatation, gastric slippage, infections of the port and the band, erosion and defects of the band tube.
Insufficient weight loss and late pouch dilatation arise from unsatisfactory compliance on the part of the patient.
In 7.5 % of 146 cases, reoperations were necessary.
Obstruction of the pouch stoma and a slippage resulted in total food intolerance.
After radiologic diagnosis the band system should be deflated first and a naso-gastric tube applied.
If this does not result in the pouch collapsing, a revision operation is needed.
The significant legal and ecomonic ramifications of a positive drug test produce an incentive among users of illicit drugs to escape detection.
Therefore, being the easiest body fluid to handle for drug screening urine is very often manipulated to test clean.
Methods available to cause a negative result range from substitution of urine, adulteration of the collected specimen by various chemical agents and in-vivo manipulations.
Among these, the preferred strategy is to increase fluid intake and urine flow so as to dilute the concentration of drugs below the threshold of detection.
To determine the extent of possible specimen dilution the urinary creatinine concentration is generally determined.
Based on data from uncontrolled and controlled fluid intake studies in the literature and physiological conditions of urinary excretion, the meaningfulness of creatinine concentration in randomly obtained urine samples is discussed.
A low creatinine concentration not clearly proving an intentional dilution of the sample, the application of GC/MS analysis or the concentration of the urine prior to drug screening is recommended for specimens exhibiting a "suspect" urinary creatinine concentration.
Goal: Intracranial pressure (ICP) monitoring has a key role within the neuromonitoring, although ICP does not monitor processes of the central neuron directly and only with delay.
One of the important factors in ICP monitoring is measurement accuracy.
For a better understanding of ICP probes and their differences, the function and principles of intracranial pressure transducers should be evaluated from a technical point of view.
The therapy for spontaneous or artificial perforation of the esophagus remains a controversial matter.
The following case report deals with the medical history of an artificial esophageal perforation after operative treatment of cervical disc disease.
A 68-year-old male patient underwent a C4/C5 and C5/C6 discectomy with interbody fusion of C7-T1 vertebral body, according to Smith-Robinson.
During this operation, a 3-cm-long lesion was made in the posterior wall of the esophagus, which was treated 24 h later with a primary suture.
The clinical follow-up was complicated by mediastinitis with subsequent multiorgan failure.
After recovery from this critical condition the patient complained of severe dysphagia, which was related to a persistent lesion in the posterior esophageal wall with endoscopically demonstrated dislocation of a screw.
After removal of the screw, the lesion was covered by means of sternocleidomastoid myoplasty.
Moderate postoperative dysphagia was successfully treated by bougienage.
Introduction: The loss of functional capacity by peripheral nerve lesion is easy to be estimated: A certain neurologic dysfunction results in a characteristic reduction of the former individual capacity.
In contrast, the effect of accompanying pain to every-day life and working ability is not known exactly.
In this study, we compared the results of judgement in nerve lesions under the circumstances of additional pain syndromes.
The guidelines of the International Union against Cancer are generally used to assess malignancy of squamous cell carcinoma of the skin.
Beside TNM-staging, histological grading is performed.
This system has been extended by a selection of histological parameters which were studied with respect to prognosis, based on a review of 184 patients with squamous cell carcinoma.
An increased malignancy was found in carcinomas with the following features: clinical diameter greater than 2 cm, low degree of keratinization, high degree of cellular polymorphism, high mitotic index and high tumor thickness index (metastases only from tumor thickness 2,4 mm and subcutaneous infiltration), desmoplasia and ulceration.
Consideration of histological tumor parameters improved prognosis assessment.
Multivariate analyses with large case series are necessary to determine ranks of the prognostic factors.
Therefore, the data analysis of all centers that contribute to the carcinoma registry will make a precise difinition of high- and low-risk carcinomas possible and can thus influence therapy and follow-up procedures.
Surgical closure of atrial septal defects can nowadays be performed without preoperative cardiac catheterization.
For a transcatheter closure, however, x-ray exposure has been indispensable.
We report a closure of an atrial septal defect under transesophageal echocardiography without fluoroscopy.
In field research, training intensity was tested during three different dances by recording the exercise heart rates.
The subjects (twelve women from 59 to 77 years old) were tested once a week three times, over three minutes with a break of three minutes, three weeks in all.
The sequence of the dances changed every week.
Measurement of baroreflex sensitivity is a new method to identify patients after myocardial infarction with a high risk for sudden cardiac death, ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation.
In this retrospective study the baroreflex sensitivity was obtained noninvasively by measuring the systolic blood pressure with a FINAPRES-device and correlating this with the R-R intervals of the ECG after raising blood pressure with an intravenous dose of Norfenefrinhydrochlorid (Novadral).
According to other investigators a correlation of >0.7 with a significance of p<0.05 was recommended for evaluable results with a baroreflex sensitivity <3 ms/mm Hg being judged as decreased.
We investigated 302 patients (mean age 59 +/- 17 years, 224 males, 78 females).
75% of the investigations showed acceptable results.
In 77 cases (25%) reasonable results could not be achieved.
We found premature ventricular beats to be responsible in 18 investigations (6% of all investigations).
41 (13.1%) of all investigations were not evaluable because of bad correlation for unknown reason.
When we looked closely at these nonevaluable results, we found a significantly higher number of patients with impaired left ventricular ejection fraction (<40%), diabetes or inducible sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmia in the electrophysiologic study in this group.
Embryonal rhabdomyosarcomas of the female genital tract usually occur during infancy in the vagina.
Only in rare cases can they be found in the cervix, where they are most commonly seen in adolescence.
Their prognosis seems to be good since the introduction of a combination of surgery and chemotherapy.
We report a case of cervical embryonal rhabdomysarcoma in IRS stage Ia in a 32-year-old female.
After surgical resection and chemotherapy there has been no evidence of disease for 7 months.
The case is compared with the published literature and prognostically relevant features, and possible problems in the differential diagnosis in biopsies are discussed.
Between 1987 and 1993, 41 grade 3B open tibial shaft fractures were treated with the unreamed tibial nail (URTN n = 22) or an external fixator (FIX n = 19).
The method of treatment was left to the choice of the operating surgeon.
Three below the knee amputations were performed, three patients died, and three were lost to follow-up.
In all, 32 patients were followed up to union or at least for 1 year.
There were no significant statistical differences between the two groups (P<0.2, chi-squared, t-test) with respect to fracture type, fracture location, age, gender or accompanying injuries.
The URTN group showed significantly better results regarding time to full weight-bearing (URTN 11 +/- 4 weeks; FIX 20 +/- 11 weeks, P<0.01 M-W) Mann-Whitney Test, number of reoperations (URTN 1.04; FIX 2.89; P<0.01 M-W), isolated bone grafting (URTN 3/22; FIX 8/19; P<0.05 chi-squared), and average Karlström and Olerud score (URTN 30 +/- 4; FIX 26 +/- 5; P<0.05 M-W).
In all, 15/17 URTN patients and only 6/15 FIX patients achieved unlimited walking distance (P<0.01 M-W).
Time to bony union, infection, and nonunion were not significantly different between groups.
By varying the light spectrum, impulse length, impulse sequences and fluences, the PhotoDermVL allows a large choice of individual treatment parameters.
Superficial as well as deeper localized vascular malformations (essential telangiectases, port-wine stains, Poikiloderma of Civatte, hemangiomatous malformations) and cosmetically bothering hypertrichosis can be treated successfully with this high intensity polychromatic pulsed light source.
Catheter ablation is an established method to treat paroxysmal supraventricular tachyarrhythmias.
However, the risks of catheter ablation have to bee weight against antiarrhythmic therapy.
With catheter ablation AV-block III °, pulmonary embolism, pericardial tamponade (in some cases followed by death), arterial embolism as well as other complications have been described.
Especially the long term consequences of prolonged fluoroscopy time are an increased risk for fatal malignancies in young patients.
On the other hand the efficacy of antiarrhythmic therapy in patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia has been shown.
The risk of proarrhythmia associated with the treatment with class 1 and class 3 antiarrhythmic drugs that has been documented in patients after mayocardial infarction and in heart failure patients cannot be transferred to patients without structural heart disease.
It is concluded that drug therapy is still an important form of treatment in patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia.
Background: Chloroquine keratopathy is known as a disease with epithelial deposits in the cornea.
The appearance of corneal changes does not seem to be related to dose and duration of treatment.
The purpose of this study was to investigate microscopic changes of corneal morphology in patients treated with chloroquine in vivo.
Dermatological rehabilitation treatment can take different forms: climato-therapy, baths, phototherapy and psychosomatic treatments.
Which of these treatments is of most benefit to any one patient depends on his or her illness.
Accordingly, a psychosomatic approach to dermatological illness is indicated mainly when a psychological disorder and a dermatological disease coincide.
In addtion, dermatoses with psychological triggers or overlays, and also depression, pre-existing emotional disorders and special motivation for psychotherapy should be considered for psychosomatic treatment.
Finally, patients who are having trouble accepting or confronting malignant skin tumours may also benefit.
We report about the possibility of electrophysiological diagnosis and therapy in the treatment of a symptomatic left ventricular tachycardia which could not be treated effectively by oral medical therapy in a 10 year old boy with no obvious structural heart disease.
By right bundle-bloc-like QRS-complexes in the surface-ECG, the diagnosis of the ventricular origin of the tachycardia was confirmed by transesophageal-ECG.
This was followed by the first electrophysiological examination that showed increased leftventricular vulnerability.
During this electrophysiological examination the tachycardia was terminated by stimulated singular premature beats.
An oral medical therapy with sotalol was started.
After the phase of saturation the next ventricular stimulation was done, that showed no sufficient protection of sotalol against VT.
So the decision was made for ventricular ablation.
After 5 high frequency-applications no furhter ventricular tachycardia could be induced.
Since this intervention the patient lives without symptoms.
The vertebral bodies and vertebral arches show a characteristic distribution of cortical and cancellous bone.
The pedicles are loaded by uniplanar bending that is reflected by the arrangement of the Corticalis.
The ligaments of the vertebral column consist of longitudinal and (with exception of the lig.
longitudinale anterius) horizontal/oblique segmental ligament bundles.
In combination with the anulus fibrosus, the ligaments work as a kind of gear system.
They regulate the process of movements of adjactent vertebral bodies in a very precise manner and control the final phase of motion.
Besides maintaining the necessary amount of pretension the intervertebral disc distributes the loads uniformly onto the adjacent vertebral bodies.
The intervertebral joints are important for guided motion, by restricting the extent in specific planes and directions.
Because of their position, they are able to take up the shear forces and to simultaneously restrict them in different planes.
The integrity of the fascia thoracolumbalis warrants the protective function of the autochthonuos muscles.
Prolonged immobilization or physical inactivity has been shown to produce increased bone resorption due to enhanced osteoclastic activity and diminished bone formation.
These skeletal changes are a typical complication in tetraplegic patients, who are at risk of developing hypocalcemia.
Hypercalciuria is the most characteristic symptom.
Risk factors for development of malignant melanoma have been investigated in several case control studies during the last decade, with some variation in results, partly with geographical region.
Four studies have been conducted under the auspices of the Central Malignant Melanoma Registry of the German Dermatological Society; these have yielded consistent results allowing the identification of risk factors for melanoma development.
The numbers of common melanocytic naevi, of atypical melanocytic naevi and the frequency of actinic lentigines were found by multivariate regression analysis to be the most important independent risk factors for melanoma development.
Additional factors were hair colour, skin type and a history of naevus growth.
A classification of relative risks was established by considering the first three risk factors mentioned, without any clear improvement of classification when further additional significant factors were taken into accout.
For example, in individuals with more than 50 common melanocytic naevi, 5 or more atypical melanocytic naevi and simultaneous presence of actinic lentigines the risk of developing melanoma was found to be 100-fold that in persons with 10 common melanocytic naevi or fewer and without atypical melanocytic naevi or actinic lentigines.
Early recognition of melanomas may be substantially improved if these risk factors are considered.
Furthermore, intermittent intensive sun exposure (sunburns as indicator) before the age of 20 induces the development of melanocytic naevi, and after the age of 20 it contributes to the development of actinic lentigines; both factors are associated with an increased risk of melanoma development.
Problem: Clinical and ultrasound data of neonatal hips were analysed to answer the question whether a neonatal screening is necessary or not.
Method: Children born between 1.
1995 were examined clinically and by ultrasound.
The data were analysed by SPSS/PC.
Results: 5069 children with 10 138 hips were examined.
85 % were mature (type I), 14 % were physiologically immature (type IIa) and 1.2 % were pathological (IIc, D, IIIa).
The comparison shows, that from 119 hips with pathological ultrasound findings only 44 (37 %) had positive clinical findings.
A screening that is restricted to children with positive risk factors (positive family history or breech position) would result in half of the newborns with pathological hips not being treated in time.
The interpretation of three-dimensional (3D) structures of the coronary tree and the myocardium by a clinician demands a subjective visual integration of two-dimensional (2D) images of cardiac diagnostic procedures like coronary angiography and myocardial scintigraphy.
Although in the conventional analysis of 2D display scintigraphic myocardial perfusion segments are arbitrarily assigned to three major coronary artery systems, the standard myocardial perfusion distribution territories correspond with the individual pathologic-anatomic coronary tree in only 50-60% of the patients.
Hence, the mental integration ob both 2D images of coronary angiography and myocardial scintigraphy does not necessarily allow an accurate assignment of particular myocardial perfusion regions to the corresponding vessels.
For an objective assignment of each vessel segment of the coronary tree to the corresponding myocardial regions, we have developed a 3D "fusion image" technique and applied it to patients with coronary artery disease.
Cause-and-effect relationships may be more obvious with 3D data fusion and may enable an easier comparison of anatomy and physiology.
The physician's duty of professional discretion is one of the basic tenets at the heart of the doctor's profession.
It is laid down in the physicians' professional code and determined ultimately by the patient's right to self-determination, which is regulated in §203 of the German Criminal Code.
It is established in the ordinance governing physicians' work and has its origin in the patient's right of self-determination.
It is also regulated in §203 of the German Criminal Code.
An exception can be made to the duty of professional secrecy if a patient gives express permission for this or if it is allowed or required by law.
Some such exceptions are also specified in the German Social Code, although the physician's duty of disclosure is then always precisely stated, particularly when medical data in the strictest sense of the phrase are concerned.
Borderline cases are described to illustrate how the rules of professional medical discretion are breached in the course of day-to-day business transacted between the statutory accident insurance firms and the physicians under contract to them, and some hints are given on how this can be avoided.
We report on a 56-year-old renal allograft recipient receiving cyclosporin A immunosuppression.
During this therapy he subsequently developed the following cutaneous neoplasms: squamous cell carcinomas, basal cell carcinomas, Bowen's disease, actinic keratosis, sebaceous hyperplasia, a dysplastic naevus and, finally a nodular malignant melanoma.
Adverse effects of the cyclosporin A therapy are discussed, with special reference to dermatologic effects and the implications for patient and doctor.
With Multislice Spiral Computed Tomography (MSCT), existing indications for performing CT of the chest are strengthened and new applications are emerging.
The high speed of MSCT improves efficiency, image quality and patient comfort of "routine"- imaging of the chest.
The ability to cover large volumes with thin slices improves the evaluation of mediastinal lymph nodes and pulmonary nodules and allows for high-quality secondary reconstruction.
If a comprehensive diagnosis of the mediastinal structures and the pulmonary parenchyma is desired, MSCT for the first time allows reconstruction of contiguous and high- resolution (HRCT) sections from the same set of thin-collimation raw data.
This way, contiguous chest images of superior and HRCT sections of equal image quality compared to conventional CT scanning can be obtained.
Vascular protocols greatly benefit from the high speed of MSCT: For imaging the thoracic aorta or pulmonary emboli (PE), the amount of contrast material can be substantially reduced.
Owing to thin collimation, the detection-rate of small peripheral emboli can be significantly increased.
If indicated, the entire subphrenic venous system can be evaluated during the same session, without additional contrast material.
Abstract   Basis of the modern shoulder implants is the Neer II-system, a non constrained total shoulder prosthesis with conforming radii of curvature and improved protection against dislocation.
The second generation of shoulder prosthesis is based on the geometric shaft design of the Neer II prosthesis and offers not only a variety of modular head- and shaft-sizes but also through different radii a physiologic rotation-translation-mechanism.
The third generation of humeral head prosthesis carries the concept of an anatomic reconstruction one step further and enables the surgeon to adjust the inclination and the eccentric offset of the humeral head to restore the centre of rotation.
The latest development in shoulder arthroplasty are humeral head prosthesis with a fully variable 3-dimensional modularity to independently adjust the prosthestic head position regardless of the individual shaft geometry.
This achieves a 3-dimensional adaptability of the prosthetic head about the stem axis in the coronary and in the sagittal plane.
Besides of the humeral shaft prosthesis an alternative concept of shoulder joint replacement is established - the replacement of the humeral head articular surface.
A hemispheric surface prosthesis - cup arthroplasty - is cemented onto the residual humeral head, which eliminates the obligatory humeral head resection and the reaming of the medullary canal.
Bipolar shoulder prosthesis are humeral shaft prosthesis with a bi-rotational head system.
Their indication is limited to pre-existing lesions of the rotator cuff and/or the glenoid surface.
The inverse total shoulder prosthesis reverses the articular surface morphology of the humeral head and the glenoid.
The hemispheric glenoid component serves as the centre of rotation for the concave epiphyseal proximal humerus component.
This implant is especially used in cases of massive rotator cuff deficiences.
The role of shoulder prosthesis in treating acute humeral head fractures needs special consideration.
A fracture prosthesis has to restore the exact length of the humerus, the centre of rotation, and the anatomical retroversion.
Positioning of the tubercula and their adequate osteosynthesis is most critical and fundamental to ensure a correct healing process.
A failed consolidation of the tubercula does not lead to a satisfying result.
The shoulder joint replacement can be sufficiently fixated in cemented, cementless or hybrid techniques.
Today several component design variations of cemented glenoid implants exist.
Their main distinction is the fixation system which can be divided into two main groups - the keel - and the peg-shaped glenoid components.
The peg-shaped anchorage system shall guarantee a greater stability against shear-forces.
Cementless glenoid components consist of a polyethylen inlay and a surface treated metal-back with an integrated fixation system.
These fixation systems are object of intensive biomechanical research and range from conventional screw fixation to specialised cone systems and self-cutting cage-screw-systems.
The critical area of cementless glenoid components is the transition zone of the PE-inlay and the metal-back because of high force development.
The question of implanting a hemi- or total shoulder prosthesis is answered by the morphologic changes of the glenoid articular surface, which includes the size of the subchondral defect and the underlying etiology of the shoulder joint disease, and the age of the patient.
Preoperative planning must consist of an adequate radiologic work-up - X-ray, CT or MRI - to accurately assess the glenoid morphology.
G. Walch categorised the different glenoid lesions and developed a very important classification of possible glenoid deformations.
To compare and evaluate the operative results one must consider the different shoulder prosthesis and the discrepancies between a hemi- and a total shoulder prosthetic replacement.
Looking at the loosening and survival rate of the implant the results are related to the type of prosthesis and the preoperative diagnosis.
The Neer total shoulder prosthesis has a 15 year survival rate of 87 %, compared to 74 % of the hemi-prosthesis.
The objective for the future has to be to further advance the development of prosthetic components, especially for primary joint replacement in acute humeral head fractures.
Another point of interest is how to reduce the still existing high loosening rates of the glenoid components.
A fairly new research-field is the computer-assisted surgery, e. g. navigation systems and robotics.
The computer-assisted navigation could be of great advantage to accurately find the individual resection plane (inclination and restroversion) of the humeral head.
The use of a surgery-robot could be very helpful to reproducibly achieve the desired conformity of the articular surface when preparing the glenoid.
Two patients with complete paralysis of the axillary nerve are reported on.
One case is well documented.
In both cases there was very good functional adaptation, resulting from hypertrophy of the rotator cuff so that there was only a slight or no loss of movement.
The rotator cuff should therefore be exercised at an early stage when there is isolated axillary nerve damage.
The function of the supraspinous muscle is also discussed.
Johann Friedrich Dieffenbach (1792-1847) is generally known as the founder of modern plastic surgery.
One focus of his work, apart from the physiology of transplantation and operative techniques, was reconstructive oral and maxillofacial surgery.
This special aspect of plastic surgery as well as Dieffenbach's biography is presented in this historic article.
When a lifeless person is found in a bath tub, the emergency physician is obliged to give medical assistance.
If the patient is dead on arrival, the manner of death will in most cases unsettled.
In these cases the physician should inform the police immediately.
Any alteration of the scene of death should be avoided.
The purpose of this review is to outline the laparoscopic-endoscopic procedures that we perform for early gastric cancer.
These procedures were applied to 29 patients.
Preoperative work-up included gastric endoscopy, barium X-ray examination, endoscopic ultrasonography, and histological examination, and surgery was performed in patients diagnosed as having mucosal gastric cancer for which endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR) was difficult.
Laparoscopic wedge resection of the stomach using the lesion-lifting method, by which a wedge resection is made while pulling up the full-thickness gastric wall, was carried out in the 16 patients with lesions of the anterior wall, lesser curvature, and greater curvature of the stomach.
On pathological examination of resected specimens, the surgical margin and lymphatic or venous invasion were negative in all these patients.
The histological depth of the lesions was m (mucosal cancer) in 15 patients and sm1 (slight cancer infiltration into the submucosal layer) in one.
This one patient later underwent gastrectomy but no lymph node metastases were found.
Oral nutrition was resumed for a mean ( +/-  SD) of 2.9  +/-  0.8 days after operation, and the duration of hospitalization after operation was 12.3  +/-  3.4 days.
The 13 patients with lesions of the posterior wall of the stomach and near the cardia or the pylorus received laparoscopic intragastric mucosal resection.
Laparotomy was required in 1 of these patients due to intraoperative hemorrhage.
The surgical margins were negative in all 12 patients in whom laparoscopic intragastric mucosal resection was successful.
Lymphatic or venous invasion was positive in 2, both of whom had sm1 cancer lesions of both of these patients were located in the cardiac region, total gastrectomy was avoided, and careful observation is continued.
Oral nutrition was resumed 4.0  +/-  1.6 days after operation, and the duration of hospitalization after operation was 12.0  +/-  3.5 days.
In addition, no postoperative complication was noted after either procedure, and all patients have been recurrence free for a follow-up period of 460 months.
Selected properly, these laparoscopic endoscopic procedures are considered to be curative and minimally invasive treatments for early gastric cancer.
Between 1988 and 1997, tumor resection was carried out in 18 irradiated patients (group 1: 36-72 Gy, 83 implants) and 22 nonirradiated patients (group 2: 92 implants) in the mandible and floor of the mouth, and these patients subsequently underwent mandibular endosseous implant rehabilitation.
A total of 23 patients were treated with exclusively implant-supported prostheses, and 16 with implant tissue-supported constructions.
Between 1988 and 1991, group 1 and 2 patients received implant tissue-supported prostheses (using two to four implants).
Due to prosthesis-related pressure lesions, the strategy has now been changed.
Since 1992, group 1 patients have received exclusively implant-supported prostheses (using five to six implants), while group 2 patients have received implant tissue-supported constructions (using four implants).
Special criteria for the success of implant-supported maxillofacial prosthetics were drawn up.
With an average follow-up period of 37 months, 160 fixtures (91%) were clinically osseointegrated.
Both types of restoration provided sufficient oral rehabilitation.
However, only completely implant-supported prostheses avoided soft tissue ulcers.
The overall success rate was about 77% after 7 years in group 1 and about 87% after 9 years in group 2.
With regard to implants placed after strategy change, the 5-year success rate was approximately 86% (group 1) and 94% (group 2).
In irradiated patients, an exclusively implant-supported prosthesis without any mucosal contact (thus avoiding soft tissue ulcers with a potential to develop osteoradionecrosis) should therefore be fabricated.
Implant tissue-supported restoration is also possible in nonirradiated oral cancer patients.
Extracorporal shock wave therapy (ESWT) has been postulated as an additional therapeutic option in nonunion after fracture treatment.
We have reexamined patients with nonunions treated at our institution to evaluate the efficacy of the method.
In a prospective nonrandomized study patients were investigated with a minimum duration of nonunion of 6 months.
Following 2 cycles of ESWT with 2000 impulses/18 kV, the reevaluation was performed at 1, 3 and 6 months after treatment.
A total of 27 pseudarthroses was reevaluated, in 11 one or more reosteosyntheses had been performed prior to ESWT.
Following ESWT we found a success rate of 41 % (n = 11).
The clinical evidence of subjective, clinical improvement was found in 5 of these patients within 1 month, in all of these patients within a period of 3 months.
Radiologic evidence of improvement occurred in none of these patients within 1 month, in all of these patients within 6 months.
ESWT appears to represent an additional treatment option in patients with longstanding nonunion.
If no improvement occurs, the maximum delay of reosteosynthesis is three months.
Over a period of 11 years a total of 140 liver resections for non-colorectal, non-neuroendocrine hepatic metastases were performed in 127 patients (73 women, 54 men; median age 53 years).
There were 120 first, 14 second and 6 third liver resections.
Primary tumors were: breast cancer (n = 34), leiomyosarcoma (n = 20), pancreatic cancer (n = 16), renal cell carcinoma (n = 13), melanoma (n = 9), gastric cancer (n = 9), lung cancer (n = 6) and adrenal cancer (n = 6) and miscellaneous tumors (n = 14).
Extrahepatic tumor manifestation (including synchronous primary tumors) was found in 69/140 cases (49 %); 61 of 120 patients with a first liver resection had extrahepatic tumor (51 %).
In the 120 first liver resections, 82 (68 %) R0, 13 (11 %) R1 and 25 (21 %) R2 excisions were possible.
Median survival after first liver resection was 20 months; after R0 resection a median survival of 28 months and after R1/2 resection of 8 months was achieved.
The 5-year survival rate was 16 % for the total group, 24 % in patients with R0 resection and 0 % for R1/2 resections.
After a second liver resection (n = 14) there was a median survival of 28 months (5-year-survival-rate of 21 %) for all patients and of 41 months (5-year survival rate 38 %) after R0 resection.
Morbidity and mortality after the first liver resection were 32.5 % and 5.8 %, respectively.
In patients without extrahepatic tumor at the time of the first liver resection a median survival of 32 months (5-year survival rate 25 %) and 7 months was achieved after R0 resection and R1/2 resection, respectively.
In case of extrahepatic tumor the median survival was 24 months (5-year survival rate 23 %) for R0 resection compared to 8 months after R1/2 resection.
These data suggest that not the presence of extrahepatic tumor but rather the possibility of a R0 resection is most decisive for the prognosis after liver resection.
We conclude that patients with liver metastases of non-colorectal, non-neuroendocrine tumors may benefit from liver resection.
Similar to colorectal metastases, a second or third liver resection can be worthwhile in selected cases.
Even in more unfavorable tumor entities, several cases of long-term survival were observed after surgical therapy.
Therefore, the indication for liver resection should be considered carefully in every single case.
Generalizations about the outcomes of psychotherapy are essentially based on research on brief therapies with quite short follow-up.
The present paper is a survey of some of the findings in an effectiveness study of psychoanalysis and long-term psychotherapy, typically psychoanalytically oriented, in private practice.
The design was a three-wave panel comprising more than 700 patients.
At the end of the third wave, 418 patients in different phases of treatment remained in the sample.
Across a reconstructed time scale covering roughly seven years, before, during, and after treatment, the 74 psychoanalysis cases described a very positive development, whereas the development among the 331 psychotherapy cases was moderately positive.
The findings emphasize the importance of extended follow-up.
When therapist variables are considered, therapeutic experience had complex or mixed associations with patients outcome.
Especially positive were high age and many years, in private practice, after licensing.
Therapeutic ideals and attitudes divided the therapist group in three subgroups, one of which was characterized by purely classical psychoanalytic views on the values of support, friendliness etc.
Therapists in the classically psychoanalytic cluster were found to do poorly with patients in psychotherapy, in contrast to patients in psychoanalysis.
It is concluded that psychoanalysis and psychodynamically oriented psychotherapy are qualitatively different.
Experimental studies and open clinical trials have suggested intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) as a potentially effective treatment of multiple sclerosis (MS).
The Austrian Immunoglobulin in Multiple Sclerosis (AIMS) study tested this assumption by examining 148 patients with relapsing-remitting MS in a randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled fashion (75 IVIg, 73 placebo).
Monthly administration of IVIg in a dosage of 0.15-0.20 g/kg over a period of 2 years slowed the progression of or even reversed disability as evident in a total of 24% of patients and almost halved the number of relapses in comparison to placebo treatment.
Therapeutic efficacy was noted within the first 6 months of treatment and was not correlated to the severity of disability (mild neurological sins without disability to ambulatory with assistance) at study entry.
Overall the magnitude of treatment effects of IVIg was comparable to that reported for beta-interferon and copolymer 1.
Further ongoing studies will have to clarify the future role of IVIg in the treatment of MS, in particular in the progressive forms of the disease.
Spontaneous coronary artery dissection is a rare cause of ischemic heart disease.
Incidence, etiology and optimal treatment are ill-defined.
Between July 1995 and December 1997, we prospectively identified 42 patients (36 men, six women, mean age 59 +/- 12 years) with spontaneous coronary artery dissection among 3803 consecutive angiographic examinations in which the diagnosis of coronary artery disease was established for the first time (incidence 1.1%).
In comparison to the remaining study population with stable angina pectoris (8 cases of spontaneous coronary artery dissection among 2852 patients; incidence: 0.3%), the incidence of spontaneous coronary artery dissection was significantly higher in the patient subgroups with acute myocardial infarction (13/450; 2.9%) and with unstable angina pectoris or postinfarction angina (21/501; 4.2%).
Dissection was most frequently located in the left anterior descending coronary artery (19 cases), followed by the right coronary artery (15 cases) and the left circumflex coronary artery (8 cases).
Because of an ambiguous angiographic lesion appearance intravascular ultrasound imaging was performed in 13 patients to confirm the diagnosis.
The presumed etiology of spontaneous coronary artery dissection was atherosclerotic plaque rupture in 35 cases, heavy physical exercise in four cases and hormonal influences related to pregnancy and contraception in one case.
In two cases, no obvious risk factor could be identified.
Therapy consisted of intracoronary stenting in 24 patients (including ten patients with acute myocardial infarction), coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) in 8 patients and balloon angioplasty (PTCA) in seven patients.
Three patients were treated conservatively.
Introduction: Since the introduction of laparoscopic hernioplasty the TAPP procedure (transabdominal preperitoneal approach) has become the most widely used technique.
Many surgeons have changed to the total extraperitoneal approach (TEP), because they fear the consequences of a peritoneal lesion.
Method: We evaluated our results with TAPP in a retrospective study, with special attention to complications caused by the approach.
We operated on 460 hernias in 390 patients in a period of 5 years.
Results: Complication rates and recurrence rates were similar to those after TEP.
There was a marked learning curve with decrease of both rates during the evaluated years.
There were no complications related to the transabdominal approach other than trocar hernias, the rate of which could be reduced by eliminating the learning curve and by using smaller trocar diameter.
Conclusion: We see no reason to change from TAPP to the TEP technique.
This article examines the use and acceptance of ticket machines, automatic teller machines (ATMs) and telephone cards by the elderly in four European regions.
The analyses are based on data from an international project entitled "Keeping the Elderly Mobile", collected in Mannheim (former West Germany; N=404 home-dwelling respondents), Chemnitz (former East Germany; N=400), Ancona (Italy; N=600), and Jyväskylä (Finland; N=618).
The random sample was stratified by age and gender in each country.
Two generations of men and women (aged 55-74 and 75+ years, respectively) participated in the study.
Results show that respondents generally made little use of the three technologies under investigation: in fact, the majority of respondents does not use them at all.
The most frequently used devices were ATMs in Chemnitz and ticket machines and telephone cards in Mannheim.
On the basis of logistic regression analysis, age was the most important explanatory factor for the three technologies and for all four regions, i.e., the users were mostly the "young-old."
Education was a more important variable than gender.
In all four regions, the majority of the respondents who used the technologies assessed felt that each of them made life easier; nevertheless, ticket machines make life more difficult to almost every third user in Mannheim.
Interesting differences and similarities among the towns were also found.
The present study exhibits preliminary results regarding elderly and technology which future research should investigate in greater depth.
In order to examine the efficacy of whole body acupuncture additionally applied to drug treatment in depression, a single-blind placebo-controlled study with 70 inpatients administered to three different treatment groups has been carried out.
All patients were pharmacologically treated with the tetracyclic antidepressant mianserin.
The verum group (n=22) received acupuncture at specific points considered to be effective in the treatment of depression.
The placebo group (n=24) was treated with acupuncture at non-specific locations and the control group (n=24) received only pharmacological treatment.
Acupuncture was applied three times a week over a period of four weeks.
Psychopathology was rated by judges blind to verum/placebo conditions twice a week over eight weeks with the CGI, GAS, BRMS and BfS rating scales.
Additionally applied acupuncture improved the course of depression more than pharmacological treatment with mianserin did by itself.
However, we could not detect any differences between placebo and verum acupuncture.
Acute heart failure consists of decompensated chronic heart failure, acute pulmonary edema and cardiogenic shock.
While decompensated heart failure shows little therapeutic difficulties therapy of pulmonary edema is more sophisticated.
Cardiogenic shock, however is still a therapeutic challenge.
For therapy of cardiogenic shock positive inotropes, phosphodiesterase-inhibitors and various assist devices are currently in use.
If it is not possible to correct underlying diseases, mortality of cardiogenic shock is still high.
Two years after the diagnosis of Sézary syndrome, a 50-year old female patient experienced attacks of painful ischemia of both hands and feet, leading to acral necrosis.
Another 59-year old patient presented with severe pain in his feet, secondary to ischemia.
This was the first symptom of a T-cell-chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Similar cases have only occasionally been described.
The relationship between acral ischemia and T-cell-lymphoma is not clear but is discussed in this article.
The clinical features of progression sensorineural hearing loss and vertigo in combina-tion with the radiologic finding of a contrast- enhancing mass within the inner auditory canal are suggestive of an acoustic neuroma.
We report our findings in a 57-year-old woman with known mixed connective tissue disease who was presumed to have a neuroma.
A large malignant lymphoma of the cerebellopontine angle presented clinically with a primary acoustic none palsy and no other central neurological deficits.
Both the primary radiological examinations and the exclusively peripheral nerve palsy failed to indicate manifestationes of a lymphoma.
The development of a progressive facial palsy within 8 weeks of presentation and an atypi-cal occipital headache were uncommon findings for an acoustic neuroma.
Such changes in symptoms despite the occurrence of car-dinal symptoms require further diagnostic measures.
Manifestations of a malignant lymphoma in the cerebellopontine angle are extremely rare.
To our knowledge a case of an intracerebral lymphoma in a patient with Sjögren's syndrome has never been reported before.
Cutaneous blisters on a corpse are not only of forensic interest regarding their etiology and genesis but also the time of origin, particularly the problem of vital, agonal, supravital or postmortem occurrence of cutaneous blisters could be of forensic value.
The aim of this work was to summarize the causative spectrum of cutaneous blisters, including poisonous plants and animals, drugs and toxic substances.
The time of origin of cutaneous blisters were evaluated in selected forensically relevant cases.
The purpose of the present study was to compare two sedation regimens with either propofol (P) or methohexital (M) for elective magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in children with respect to safety, side effects, recovery, and discharge time.
Pharmacological thrombolysis is a valuable therapeutic modality for embolic arterial occlusion.
Nevertheless, thorough evaluation of the indications is imperative to avoid serious complications.
The most frequent complication is hemorrhage.
Of these, the intracerebral hemorrhages are rare, but when they do occur they are an immediate threat to life they are accompanied by very severe complications, and they have an extremely poor prognosis.
Within 58 months 361 patients were treated at our neurosurgical clinic with intracerebral hematomas.
In 22 patients (6.1%) the hematoma developed as a complication of systemic thrombolysis.
Two of these patients had been treated for occlusion of the central retinal artery.
One patient died: the other survived but was severely disabled.
The latter patient experienced no benefit from the thrombolysis as for as the underlying ophthalmologic disease was concerned.
These worrying examples stress the necessity for careful evaluation of risk factors and the natural history of the underlying disease for which systemic thrombolysis is indicated.
Local selective (or superselective) thrombolysis is preferable to the systemic procedure, provided that the indications are equally strictly observed and are less likely to lead to severe complications.
We report on a 61-year-old patient with considerable insufficiency of a quadricuspid aortic valve and coronary three vessel disease.
The congenital quadricuspid aortic valve has become symptomatic due to the development of (post-endocarditic) insufficiency only in the advanced stage of life.
It was treated by replacement of the aortic valve and bypass myocardial revascularization.
The physiopathology of quadricuspid aortic valve will be discussed.
Due to its high prevalence, atopic dermatitis is an important problem in the dermatologic practice.
The chronicity of the disease together with numerous triggering factors of varying individual impact create a complex situation which is difficult to manage under the current circumstances in our health care system.
We describe the concept of an outpatient clinic especially for atopic dermatitis as established in our Department of Dermatology.
A high degree of standardization is combined with a high measure of individual care.
The aims of this clinic are an optimized outpatient management of atopic dermatitis, the gathering of epidemiologic data, the performance of controlled studies, and potentially the reduction of costs.
Abstract:  Traumatic cerebral aneurysms are rare in severely head-injured patients.
We present the first case of a traumatic aneurysm of the A1/A2 junction.
Purpose: Although the relationship between optic pits and macular lesions was described nearly a century ago, the pathology and pathogenesis of macular detachment remain unclear.
Recent OCT studies have shown schisislike spaces in connection with the disc.
None of the hypotheses of pathogenesis proposed so far could have been proven.
Besides the hypothesis of exudation, the role of the vitreoretinal interface is kept in the background of discussion.
We describe a case of macular detachment associated with optic pit that regained full vision after pars plana vitrectomy with laser coagulation and gas tamponade over a follow-up of 26 months.
The purpose of our case report is to emphasize the role of the vitreoretinal interface in the pathogenesis of macular detachment associated with optic pits.
Sclerosing adenosis of the prostate is a benign lesion, which was not recognized until a few years ago.
As in sclerosing adenosis of the breast, a background of various hyperplastic changes is commonly also present in the prostate.
An incidence of 2.8 % was reported in one series of resected hyperplastic prostatic glands.
As demonstrated in this case report, the main problem lies in the differential diagnosis between sclerosing adenosis and highly differentiated adenocarcinoma of the prostate.
Histological diagnosis of sclerosing adenosis based on routine HE sections is supplemented by immunohistochemical methods.
Important diagnostic criteria of sclerosing adenosis are the presence of basal cell differentiation, which is demonstrated by cytokeratin 903, and signs of possible myoepithelial differentiation, with expression of S-100 and/or smooth muscle actin.
These antibody expressions are lacking with in the presence of adenocarcinoma of the prostate.
Nevertheless, in a small number of cases this differential diagnosis remains impossible, even after the application of immunohistochemical methods.
Further studies are needed to shed some light on the relations between sclerosing adenosis, atypical adenomatous hyperplasia and adenocarcinoma of the prostate.
So far, there appears to be no evidence of a direct relationship between sclerosing adenosis of the prostate and an elevated risk of carcinoma.
Benign intracavitary cardiac tumors lead to "malignant" complications, so early diagnosis and adequate treatment are of vital importance.
Our investigation summarizes a 10-year experience after surgical treatment of 29 patients suffering from benign intracavitary cardiac tumors.
The postoperative histological examination revealed a myxoma in 27 cases; in 2 cases a papillary fibroelastoma was diagnosed.
The main symptom in 19 patients was dyspnea.
In 8 cases an embolic event occurred.
All patients underwent extirpation of the tumor.
Early mortality was 10 %, while late mortality was 4 %.
The treatment of choice of benign intracavitary cardiac tumors is extirpation, which, due to unpredictable embolic complications, is to be carried out immediately should the tumor have a lobulated tuberous surface.
In such cases the descriptive function of echocardiography is of considerable importance.
We present a case of a 48 year old man who complained of progressive dyspnoe.
Radiograph revealed a large tumor in the left lung.
Biopsy was performed and revealed beneath a normal bronchial epithelium polymorph tumor cells admixed with some histiocytes.
These tumor cells were strongly pigmented and expressed HMB-45 and protein S-100 immunohistochemically.
Malignant melanoma of the bronchus was included in the differential diagnosis.
A thoracotomy and left lower lobe resection was performed.
The lung is an uncommon localisation of angiomyolipoma with so far three reported cases.
Lipoma, leiomyoma and lymphangioleiomyomatosis have to be included in the differential diagnosis.
The peculiarity of this case is the presence of multiple pigmented tumor cells that express HMB-45.
This has not been reported yet.
Background: The maximum number of cell divisions of a certain cell population is genetically fixed so that aging cells become non-dividing (senescent) at least.
This replicative life span, also known as "hayflick limit", is probably defined by a "critical" length of the telomeres.
Telomeres are special DNA-sequences located at the four ends of the chromosomes which are shortened with each cell cycle.
Cells of most, but not all malignant tumours have been shown to reactivate the enzyme telomerase so that telomeres can be reconstructed, "Hayflick limit" can be overcome, and unlimited cell division can be established.
This study was undertaken to elucidate whether telomerase reactivation is used by uveal melanoma cells.
A total of 113 patients with acute and chronic instability of the ulnar collateral ligament metacarpal phalangeal (MP) joint of the thumb were treated surgically between 1980 and 1985; 82 patients were followed up after a mean period of 10 years.
Of 59 patients with acute injuries, 52 were painfree with full stability of the MP joint; 23 patients with chronic instability and tendon grafting also showed restoration of stability.
Nevertheless, the range of motion was reduced severely and opposition of the thumb was impaired.
The results of follow-up reveal that acute reattachment of the injured ulnar collateral ligament is more effective.
The purpose of this study was to assess the role of spiral computed tomography (SCT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the preoperative work-up of patients with pancreatic carcinoma, regarding local resectability and vascular involvement.
Methods and materials: A total of 28 patients (19 men and 9 women; mean age 58 years) with known or highly suspected carcinoma of the pancreas were included in this study.
All patients prospectively underwent MRI ( +/-  gadolinium-DTPA) and SCT (3-phase examination) as preoperative diagnostic imaging studies, and laparotomy was carried out within 7 days, irrespective of the MRI or SCT findings.
SCT and MR studies were reviewed independently by two radiologists, without knowing the results of the surgical exploration.
Standardized image analysis was correlated with findings at laparatomy.
Results: Laparotomy identified 10 patients to be suitable for surgical resection and 18 pancreatic carcinomas to be unresectable.
In 17 of 18 non-resectable carcinomas MRI and SCT were able to obtain correct information about unresectability (sensitivity 94 %), in 7 (MRI), resp.
8 (SCT) carcinomas were correctly considered to be resectable (sensitivity 70 % for MRI and 80 % for SCT).
The presence of vascular involvement was depicted by SCT with a sensitivity of 82-100 % and 62-100 % by MRI.
The specificity varied between 85-100 % for SCT and 77-100 % for MRI.
Conclusion: Both MRI and SCT are good techniques for the preoperative work-up of pancreatic carcinomas in order to obtain a correct assessment of local resectability.
Pancreatic pseudocysts occur as a complication in the natural course of acute or chronic pancreatitis, with a spontaneous resolution rate of 40 % to 60 %.
The incidence of pseudocysts in the course of chronic pancreatitis amounts to 60 %.
Pseudocysts have to be differentiated from neoplastic or congenital pancreatic cystic lesions.
Careful diagnostic work-up including ERCP and CT scanning is mandatory in the management of pancreatic pseudocysts.
The indication for treatment depends on the development of symptoms or complications.
Pain is present in up to 90 % of all patients, and the rate of complications varies between 2 % and 55 %.
Pancreatic pseudocysts are usually an epiphenomenon of chronic pancreatitis.
Pancreatic resection therefore represents a causative treatment.
New percutaneous and endoscopic techniques for draining pseudocysts are challenging the previous hegemony of the surgeon.
However, so far no prospectively collected data are available comparing the results of interventional and surgical drainage procedures.
Therefore, in most symptomatic cases surgery is considered the treatment of choice.
A 28-year-old drug addict who had injected intravenously died of hepatic failure and coma caused by fulminant hepatitis (simultaneously: hepatitis A, persistent hepatitis B, hepatitis C and superinfection by delta hepatitis).
Liver histology disclosed cirrhosis with severe necrotizing hepatitis and extensive microvesicular steatosis, compatible with a delta virus infection.
Moderate pulmonary fat embolism (grade I-II according to Falzi) was accompanied by fat deposits in alveolar macrophages.
It is postulated that protracted fat mobilization from necrotizing hepatocytes may be the cause of pulmonary fat embolism; the extravasation of fat from the vessels into the alveoli results in phagocytosis by alveolar macrophages.
Suicide on railways (either by being run over by or jumping in front of a train) is one of the 'hardest' suicide methods.
In Austria, 617 suicides or attempted suicides on railways were registered between 1990 and 1994.
This amounts to 5.73 % of all suicides committed in this period with women showing a higher percentage than men.
In both men and women there was a predominance of younger age groups; the mean age was higher in women than in men (48.0 vs 40.4 years).
There was a significant increase in suicides or attempted suicides on railways after a television report on the stress suffered by train drivers concerning possible suicides.
Persuading the mass media to treat the subject of 'suicide' with reserve and with greater caution, even when not presenting a distinct suicide model, may be of importance in general suicide prevention.
For decades the results of elective lymph node dissection (ELND) are differently discussed, so that it is not definitely recommended at present the less so since the morbidity of this operation can't be neglected.
Since the beginning of 1995 we practice a gamma-probe guided sentinel lymphonodectomy (SLNE) on patients with melanoma from a Breslow tumor thickness of 1 mm upward, after injecting a colloidal 99m-Tc labelled tin (II) - sulfid solution around the tumor or the scar, if the tumor has been excided before.
By this method, that allows a selection of patients who according clinically to a stage I or II (UICC) but even histopathologically to a stage III and who are profiting of a removal of the regional lymph nodes, the sentinel node can be exactly localised, tissue-sparing removed at minimal complication rates and the completeness of the removal can be verified by measurements of the radioactivity.
When finding metastases in the histopathological examination of the node a dissection of the whole region follows.
During rehabilitation of patients suffering from a recent hip fracture, we evaluated the development of several aspects of their subjective well-being (n=87, age: 70 to 94).
In most cases, a deterioration of subjective well-being due to the consequences of the hip fracture could be prevented; the well-being improved in most cases.
When discharged, the subjective well-being of our patients was comparable to the well-being of similar-aged people living at home.
Antidepressants are used in demented patients for treating depressive symptoms as well as other non-cognitive symptoms including agitation, aggression and irritability.
As patients are usually elderly, a dose adjustment is mandatory for all classes of antidepressants.
New antidepressants such as the SSRIs and the reversible MAO inhibitors should be the first-line agents in these patients, because their efficacy is not different from that of classic TCA, but they have advantages regarding frequency of adverse effects, ease of use and safety.
Improvement in cognitive performance, however, may not be expected from the new antidepressants.
For the treatment of agitation, aggression and irritabiltiy, antipychotics and benzodiazepines are in frequent use, although their adverse effects are particularly problematic in demented patiens.
Good alternatives are the antidepressant trazodone and citalopram.
All medications mentioned have been studied on small patient samples, so treatment recommendations must be given cautiously.
The application of laser energy to joint capsular tissues resulted in the reduction of the joint capsule.
Primary clinical results of combined laser-assisted capsular shrinkage (LACS) and multiple suture repair (Caspari) for arthroscopic stabilization procedure of anterior shoulder instability are presented.
From July 1997 to October 1998, 18 patients (2 female, 16 male; mean age 27.9 years; range 16-42 years) with anterior instability and recurrent dislocations of the shoulder received a combined arthroscopic stabilization procedure.
The operative technique involved the use of transglenoid sutures to repair the labrum and shift the capsule (Caspari) and LACS.
Laser energy was applied using a Ho: YAG laser (10 W, 1 J, 10 pulses/s, total energy: 1500-2000 J).
The patients were followed for an average of 9 months (range 4-20 months).
From June 1992 to Februrary 1996, arthroscopic suture stabilization without laser shrinkage was performed on 17 patients (2 female, 15 male; age 25.9 years/range 18-37 years).
The average follow-up in this group was 4.5 years (range 2-5.5 years), and we found 41.2% (7/17) recurrent dislocations.
After combined arthroscopic procedure of multiple suture repair (Caspari) and LACS, a significantly (chi-squared test, P = 0.05) lower recurrence rate was obtained.
Only in one patient (5.6%, 1/18) did we find this failure.
No complications occurred in either group.
The combination of arthroscopic LACS and Caspari's technique of multiple suture repair in cases of posttraumatic anterior shoulder instability and recurrent dislocations is promising.
Although, no long-term results are available, the method seems to be suitable for associating low recurrence rates with the advantages of arthroscopic surgery.
Simple bone cysts are asymptomatic, benign lesions which are usually an incidental finding on a radiograph.
Etiology and treatment are controversially discussed.
The weightbearing status of the calcaneus and possible pathologic fracturing lead many authors to recommend therapeutic measures after diagnosis has been made.
We present a case report of an intact unicameral bone cyst of the calcaneus concomitant with tibial and talar fractures following crush trauma.
Several types of treatment for simple bone cysts of the calcaneus have been suggested.
The question whether treatment is unconditionally necessary is controversially discussed.
It is the author's opinion, that asymptomatic bone cysts of the calcaneus require no further treatment.
Facial neuromyography is an objective electrophysiologic measurement used to assess prognosis for recovery from facial paralysis.
In the present study variability over time of the amplitude ratio in healthy subjects was investigated.
Twenty healthy subjects underwent four neuromyographic tests at intervals of one week.
The study group consisted of 12 males and 8 females.
Ages ranged from 23 to 36 years.
The stimulation intensity required for supramaximal stimulation was 14.6 mA on average.
The mean of the intra-individual side-to-side difference of the evoked compound action potential was 32.5%.
Results of the four repeated tests ranged from no to 80% side-to-side differences in the same individual.
The hypothesis of symmetrical evoked facial compound potentials was not supported by our data.
As with previous investigators we found significant side-to-side differences in healthy subjects.
Furthermore, we could also show for the first time that the amplitude ratio was not constant in every individual at repeated measurements.
We conclude that there is a physiological variability that must be taken into account in the interpretation of facial nerve neuromyography.
To compare patient dose and image quality of electron-beam-CT vs. spiral-CT by means of phantom measurements.
An EBCT scanner (C-150 XP) and a spiral-CT scanner (GE  HiSpeed Advantage) were used to scan three different phantoms.
Administered dose, high contrast (HC) resolution, low contrast (LC) lesion detectability and the width of the radiation beams were measured.
EBCT showed 25-35% lower HC resolution in comparison to spiral-CT. LC lesion detectability showed equivalent results for S/N vs. patient dose using 3 mm collimation with EBCT and spiral-CT, whereas spiral-CT was superior for 1,5 and 6 mm collimation.
Dose measurements revealed a 2 fold higher patient dose using EBCT with 1,5 mm or 6 mm collimation compared to spiral-CT using equivalent scan parameters.
No differences were seen using 3 mm collimation.
Differences were due to insufficient beamside collimation of the EBCT.
The use of EBCT with 6 mm collimation should be avoided, because of impaired performance.
Using 3 mm collimation, EBCT showed comparable performance like state of the art spiral-CT despite lower HC resolution.
In an experimental study, the biomechanical qualities of the combined Kirschner wire osteosynthesis (KWO) in the unstable Colles' fracture were analyzed.
This type of pin fixation is our preferred osteosynthesis in the treatment of unstable Colles' fracture because it allows immediate functional therapy.
It represents a modification of Kapandji's dynamic KWO, compensating for the insufficient volar stability by means of the conventional static KWO.
Clinical experience according to the anatomical and functional results, was very encouraging suggesting that a clinical concept based on the biomechanical principles of combined KWO and its single components should be constituted.
Simulation of the unstable Colles' fracture was realized by dorsal wedge osteotomy of the distal end of the radius using cadaveric material.
This fracture model was subsequently pinned using the different KWO types and tested by a standardized vector energy testing device regarding its stability in the four main loading directions.
The combined KWO unifies the advantage of volar stability of the conventional KWO with the high dorsal stability of dynamic KWO.
The main functional principle of dynamic KWO with regard to its axial stability consists in the repositioning of the dorsal bone fragmentation zone and hence the reconstitution of cortical load transmission.
Besides its good stabilization, dynamic KWO also leads to optimal alignment of the distal metaphyseal fragment.
Furthermore, the experiments yielded important information about technical aspects of the surgical procedure, which helps us to avoid anatomical and functional deficiencies.
Based on these experimental findings, the surgical technique of combined KWO was standardized.
Purpose: It is difficult to measure the topography of the cornea with high resolution and visualize it on a map displaying refraction.
This is demonstrated by the ongoing improvement and further development of different methods and by the fact that users of these techniques are not always satisfied.
We present the case of a 2-year-old boy who was brought to hospital with extensive scalding of the face.
The clinicians raised the suspicion of a physical maltreatment of the child.
Because of the morphological findings the medico-legal expert came to the conclusion that maltreatment was proven.
During the criminal proceedings at the appeal court contrary opinions on the morphological findings of the injury between the clinical expert and the medico-legal expert became obvious.
Findings of the physical examination of the child and the experimental studies on immersion and pouring of water and the influence of clothing in case of wetting with hot water were presented which confirmed that the injury was caused by maltreatment.
The opinion of the clinical expert which supported the case of the accused could be refuted.
During the final legal proceedings the opinions of the clinical expert had been sufficient for the court to justify an acquittal "in dubio pro reo".
Anterior thoracoscopic interbody stabilization and fusion was performed in 163 patients.
Lesions treated were located between T4 and L3, most frequently occuring at T12/L2.
Operative time decreased dramatically as experience was gained with the procedure.
2 patients early in the series successfully were converted to an open procedure.
One positioning related pressure harm on the thoracodorsal nerve and one irritation of the L1 root at the entrance site were both transitory.
Postoperative control by X-ray and CTscan showed correct positioning of the bone graft, as well as the fixation device in all patients.
Our experience with this minimally invasive procedure demonstrated the feasibility of the method.
Major advantages compared to the open procedure are reduced morbidity of the approach, postoperative pain reduction, early recovery of function and shortened hospital stay.
In order to restore function and esthetics in mandibular hypoplasia, transplantation of osteochondral grafts and the distraction osteogenesis technique are used alternatively.
In a retrospective study the indication, growth and complication rate of osteochondral graft and distraction osteogenesis cases in mandibular hypoplasia were compared.
In total, 12 patients (4-14 years old; 7 female, 5 male) with different grades of mandibular hypoplasia received osteochondral grafts (7 costochondral, 5 iliac crest; observation period 4-9 years).
In 5 patients (10-12 years old; 1 female, 4 male), distraction osteogenesis was performed (observation period 10 months to 3 1/2 years).
In the results, according to the literature, the range of growth after osteochondral grafting varied considerably, approximate normal growth was noticed in only two cases.
On the other hand, all patients treated by distraction osteogenesis showed a stable increase of bone length as expected.
After osteochondral grafts, adequate growth is to be expected in the minority of cases and it does not seem predictable in individual cases.
Therefore, the indication for osteochondral grafts should be restricted to severe hypoplasia, where the local amount of bone does not allow the use of a distraction device, and to cases where support of the mandibula at the skull base is necessary.
In all other cases of mandibular hypoplasia in children, distraction osteogenesis should be discussed as the primary option, even if in the long term a second surgical procedure should be necesssary.
To evaluate the predictive value of MRI in the early postoperative course after cruciate ligament replacement, a prospective study was performed.
Twenty patients with reconstructed anterior and/or posterior cruciate ligament were examined clinically and with contrast-enhanced MRI 2, 12, 24 weeks, 1 and 2 years postoperatively.
The clinical examinations were evaluated according to the scores by Lysholm, OAK and IKDC.
The MRI scans (SP 63, 1.5 Tesla) were evaluated regarding the quality and signal intensity of the reconstructed ligament.
During the first postoperative year a significant increase in signal intensity and inhomogeneity of the neoligament in MRI was observed in 16 patients with an average value for signal/noise of 1.1 2 weeks postoperatively up to 6.9 1 year postoperatively.
In 12 patients the reconstructed ligament could not be evaluated in the 1-year postoperative MRI, whereas none of these patients was suspected clinically of having instability.
In the 2-year postoperative MRI, the signal intensity of the neoligament was found to be decreasing again with improvement in judgement.
Miniplate osteosynthesis is a standard method for the surgical treatment of mandible fractures today.
Apart from easy handling, in the majority of cases it also ensures adequate fracture stability.
The treatment of fractures of very atrophic mandibles as well as mandibular defects and comminuted fractures with miniplates and rigid plates is often difficult or only possible to an inadequate extent.
Titanium mesh has proved successful for the treatment of such fractures.
Compared with conventional miniplates this mesh is outstanding for its considerably higher stability due to its given geometry.
The titanium mesh can be adapted and screwed individually in any situation, in contrast to miniplates and rigid plates.
As a result, complications such as fracture gap infections and pseudoarthrosis can be avoided to a great extent.
Non-invasive methods to identify absent or persistent myocardial viability have gained increasing importance in the therapeutic management and risk stratification of patients with ischemic left ventricular dysfunction.
Myocardial scintigraphy using thallium-201 and positron emission tomography with metabolic imaging of myocardial glucose metabolism, using fluorine-18 fluoro-deoxyglucose, are today the most widely used nuclear methods for the assessment of myocardial viability.
Besides the prediction of reversible regional and global myocardial dysfunction following coronary revascularization, both methods have demonstrated the ability to identify patient subgroups who will benefit most with regard to cardiac prognosis and survival and those patients in whom coronary revascularization has a limited effect with regard to survival and cardiac events.
This short review summarizes the clinical impact of both imaging modalities on todays diagnostic approach in patients with ischemic left ventricular dysfunction.
An elderly woman was found dead in her farm house lying in a pool of blood and was partially unclothed.
Blood was also discovered in several rooms on the first floor.
The investigation at the scene led to the conclusion of a sexual murder.
The autopsy however revealed the source of the hemorrhage to be a renal artery aneurysm which had ruptured in the adjacent renal pelvis.
The woman has obviously been surprised by the sudden bleeding which produced the impressive pattern of blood stains on the floor and finally a fatal hemorrhage.
A similar case of a ruptured renal artery aneurysm and bleeding to death via the urinary tract has not yet been described.
In the ankle (talocrural) joint, the lower end of the tibia and fibula embrace the trochlea tali.
Thus, an approximately uniaxial joint is formed which permits dorsiflexion and plantarflexion of the foot against the leg.
Due to the geometry of the trochlea tali, conjunct lateral rotation of the fibula against the tibia occurs at the tibiofibular articulations synchronously with active dorsiflexion at the ankle joint.
Movements at the talocrural joints are mainly limited by the opposing muscles as well as by strong collateral ligaments.
Talus and calcaneus form a functional unit connected by posterior and anterior articulations.
The posterior articulation is the subtalar (talocalcaneal) joint; in the anterior articulation, talar facets of the calcaneus together with the posterior surface of the navicular and the superior fibrocartilaginous surface of the plantar calcaneonavicular ligament form a concavity for the talar head.
Thus, the talocalcaneonavicular joint is a compound and - like the subtalar joint - a multiaxial articulation.
On the weight-bearing foot, the distal tarsus and metatarsus are pronated and supinated against the talus in order to maintain plantigrade contact.
When the foot is off the ground, these movements are modified to eversion and inversion, also involving the calcaneocuboid joint.
In addition, movements between the calcaneus and cuboid also occur during pronative or supinative changes between the fore- and hindfoot.
Limitation of movements is due to leg muscles as well as strong ligaments.
Finally, the cuneonavicular, cuboideonavicular, intercuneiform and cuneocuboid joints permit some additional alterations of the loaded foot in contact with the ground.
A case of primary splenic angiosarcoma with involvement of two accessory spleens is presented.
The tumor cells are immunoreactive for endothelial markers (CD 31, CD 34, factor VIII associated antigen) and express also histiocytic antigens (CD 68, lysozyme, Cathepsin D, alpha-1-antitrypsin, alpha-1-antichymotrypsin) as well as CD 8.
This marker profile suggests that the presented angiosarcoma originates from sinus cells with  histiocytic and endothelial differentiation and may be regarded as the malignant variant of littoral cells angioma.
Despite major advances in knowledge and development of efficient techniques for pain control, many patients on surgical wards suffer from modest to severe pain following surgery or trauma.
Therefore, in the University Hospital of Kiel, Germany, an anaesthesiology-based acute pain service (APS) was started in 1985 to improve this situation.
The anaesthesiologist in training who manages the recovery unit serves as an APS for surgical wards and is supervised by a consultant.
The anaesthesists on call are responsible after regular working hours.
The activities of the APS are as follows: 1.
Induction of sufficient postoperative analgesia in the recovery unit for all surgical patients.
Clinical rounds on all patients receiving epidural analgesia (EA), other forms of regional analgesia, or patient-controlled analgesia (PCA) every morning and throughout the day if necessary.
Additional consultations for postoperative pain management for other patients on request.
Assessment and documentation of the clinical status of the patient, quality of analgesia, and side effects.
Writing orders for further treatment.
Continuing consultations and informal education for ward nurses, physiotherapists, and surgical staff; formal medical training for ward nurses in postoperative pain management.
From 1985 to 1992, 1947 patients on normal wards were treated (EA: 1736, PCA: 183).
Epidural analgesia was performed using a standard protocol with bupivacaine 0.175% - 0.25% infused continuously with top-ups if needed (mean 240 mg/day, range 75 - 600 mg; median duration 7 days, range 1 - 53, Table 1).
Demand for further treatment was proved by day-to-day withdrawal.
Since the introduction of an APS, complications of EA such as hypotension (1985/1986: 5.1%; 1987/1992: 0.5%, Table 3) and insufficient analgesia due to dislocation or other technical complications could be reduced significantly (Table 3).
Dermal infections were seen in 2.6% of patients, with a significantly higher incidence in patients with arteriosclerotic diseases (4.1%).
Epidural opioids were used in only 46 selected cases on surgical wards.
Nevertheless, 2 cases of marked respiratory depression occurred.
The overall risk of complications during postoperative EA could be reduced from 1 : 11 cases in the first 2 years to 1 : 20 in the last 6 years since introducing the APS.
For other regional procedures (e.g., interpleural analgesia) no complications were recorded.
PCA was performed using a standard protocol with tramadol or piritramide without background infusion (Table 6).
The loading dose was titrated in the recovery unit.
The median duration of PCA was 4 days (range 1 - 23); the median dose of piritramide was 45 mg/day (range 3 - 226 mg).
Two cases of somnolence and respiratory depression occurred.
In this period there were 8 potential life-threatening complications due to postoperative pain therapy; 4 occurred during standard surgical pain management (3 cases of severe respiratory depression after i.m.
piritramide (unsuccessfull resuscitation), tramadol, and buprenorphine; 1 small child with multiorgan failure after paracetamol intoxication).
In those cases the APS was not involved.
There are insufficient data for comparison of the incidence of complications following standard management of postoperative pain relief without an APS, i.e., i.m.
injections of opioids on request, but severe and sometimes lethal complications have been reported.
Since the majority of patients used EA or PCA for several days, it is again emphasised that these techniques should not be restricted to high-dependency areas such as intensive care or recovery units.
The introduction of an APS is an adequate approach to more efficient and safer pain management on surgical wards.
This requires standard protocols (Table 7), standardised monitoring and trained ward nurses.
Lambdoid synostosis can manifest unilaterally, bilaterally or in combination with other craniosynostoses.
Using the concept of fronto-orbital advancement we developed occipital advancement in order to correct unilateral or bilateral lambdoid synostosis.
The process involves striped transversal osteotomy, removal, remodelling and advancement of the occipital region.
It allows precise, reproducible and predictable positioning of the segments.
Artificial sutures are created as a result of the osteotomy.
The remodelling leads to a well-proportioned skull shape and advancement to an increase in the intracranial volume.
This article presents the operative method and the results of 14 patients.
Melanotic neuroectodermal tumor of infancy is a rare neoplasm of neural crest origin.
It almost always occurs in children younger than one year of age with a predilection for the anterior maxillary ridge.
Although it usually follows a benign course, local destruction as well as metastasis and death may result from the tumor.
Melanotic neuroectodermal tumor is most commonly treated by surgery.
10-15% of the lesions recur.
We report the case of a 2-month-old infant suffering from melanotic neuroectodermal tumor of infancy of the premaxilla who was successfully treated with a combination of various chemotherapeutic agents in order to spare the child a mutilating operation or the late effects of radiation.
Computer-assisted techniques were introduced in spine surgery in the 1990s to improve accuracy and safety of operative procedures.
Several reports on clinical results of computer-aided screw insertion in the cervical, thoracic, and lumbar spine as well as the sacro-iliac joints are available.
They show a significant decrease of screw malplacement rates as compared to conventional insertion techniques.
Over the past years, antioxidants, and particularly vitamin E, have received considerable attention in the treatment of human diseases.
In rheumatology, interest has been given to the treatment and prevention of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis.
However, the concept of using antioxidant nutrients as potential remedies is not new.
As early as the sixties, first case reports have described beneficial effects of vitamin E in the therapy of osteoarthritis.
Nonetheless, most of the following studies were not conducted properly, thus, not allowing valid inferences about the efficacy of vitamin E. Newer studies with sound methodology have shown a beneficial effect in rheumatic diseases, mainly in the reduction of pain.
This paper reviews current and past studies about vitamin E in the treatment of rheumatic diseases.
Patient-controlled intravenous analgesia (i.v.-PCA) represents the gold standard in the management of acute postoperative pain.
However, in many countries i.v.-PCA is rarely used.
Recent clinical studies demonstrated that intranasal fentanyl titration provides a rapid and safe form and pain management.
In the present study we investigated patients' acceptance and assessment of patient-controlled intranasal analgesia (PCINA) and compared it to intravenous PCA and the customarily prescribed pain therapy.
Unreamed nailing with solid tibial nails is an accepted method of treatment for open tibial shaft fractures up to grade III and of closed tibial fractures with severe soft tissue damage.
However, fatigue failure of the distal locking bolts is a frequent complication.
We report a mechanical study investigating the fatigue limit of six different types of locking bolts used in solid tibial nails (Biorigid Tibial nail/aap, UTN/ace, STN/Howmedica, TLN/Howmedica, R & T Tibial nail/Smith & Nephew, AO/ASIF UTN/Synthes).
Our results prove a direct correlation between the bolt's diameter and mechanical properties.
Further more we found that bolts with a continuing thread were weaker than bolts of the same diameter with only a short thread and an increased diameter at the nail's aperture.
Our results suggest that mobilization with half of the average body weight (350N) allows osseous consolidation without fatigue failure of any of the tested locking bolts.
Some of the tested locking bolts may even withstand full weight-bearing in a physiological walking cycle, but will not withstand the stress of a running cycle.
Voiding dysfunctions secondary to failure of adequate relaxation of the striated urinary sphincter or the smooth bladder neck should be considered in children with urinary day time incontinence and/or enuresis and recurrent urinary tract infections.
The urodynamic findings resemble to those obtained in neuropathic bladders, but only a minority of the children suffer from neurologic disorders or anatomical obstruction.
In the majority of cases a developmental delay of the central nervous system responsible for urinary control is assumed.
Behavioural disturbances play another important etiological role.
Therapy is based on behavioural modification.
We report on two patients with granulomatous rosacea and another patient with granulomatous perioral dermatitis who responded well to dapsone.
Dapsone has a pharmacological double function as both an antibiotic and an antiphlogistic drug.
Before the introduction of isotretinoin, dapsone had its place in the treatment of severe acne.
To date, its use in granulomatous rosacea has not been described.
When hematologic parameters are monitored, dapsone is considered a safe and cost-effective drug, especially in countries where isotretinoin is not readily available.
However, the definite value of dapsone in granulomatous rosacea should be established by a controlled study.
Anaesthesia both for adenotomy (AT) and for tonsillectomy (TE) frequently presents a challenge.
On one hand, children scheduled for adenotomy often have upper airway infections and are thus at risk of laryngo- and bronchospasm; on the other hand the ENT surgeon and the anaesthetist have to share the "workspace" in the patient's mouth.
Since the succinyl choline debate in the early 1990s, the question of the best muscle relaxant has gone hand in hand with that of the most appropriate means of securing the airway.
The concept of the laryngeal mask as airway was initially greeted with scepticism.
Following several years' use of the mask for this purpose in AT and TE in young children, we report our experience and summarise the literature on this topic.
The laryngeal mask represents a safe alternative to intubation, provided there is close cooperation with the ENT surgeon.
Topical corticosteroids (CS) are frequently used to treat of allergic contact dermatitis, so that their own potential for sensitization is rarely detected.
However, increasing numbers of hypersensitivity reactions to corticosteroids have been reported during the last 10 years, and allergic skin reactions to over 50 particular compounds have been observed.
CS must now be regarded as a rather frequent contact allergen, the prevalence being twice as high in women as in men.
Contact allergy to CS is clinically characterized by a chronic and persistent, corticosteroid-resistant dermatitis.
In general, hypersensitivity to CS is a type I and/or type IV mediated allergic reaction.
Cross-sensitivity between individual corticosteroid preparations has been described owing to their closely related chemical structures (e.g.
hydrocortisone and tixocortol pivalate).
Contact allergy to CS can be confirmed by patch-tests, intradermal injection tests or application tests; because of the delayed appearance of positive skin reactions a prolonged evaluation period of up to 120 h is recommended.
For routine screening the use of the patient's own material and of tixocortol pivalate and budesonide as test marker substances seems appropriate.
The development of further marker substances is a target for ongoing research.
The alliance concepts are defined as being the description of the dynamic interaction of all cognitive and emotional factors which promote the analytic process.
The historical significance and the development of the three predominant alliance concepts, these being the implicit "standard alliance" of Freud, Zetzel's therapeutic alliance and Greenson's working alliance, are to be described.
All alliance concepts refer to a general, essentially reality-oriented relationship anchored in the personal and the human domain, which forms the background for the therapeutic process and the basis for the analytic interpretation work.
Nonetheless, the dynamic force of the alliances is substantiated by factors of the transference.
The alliances are therefore not faced with the transference, but rather with the resistance.
We report on a 15-months-old girl with a history of recurrent phlegmones of the lower eyelid, dacryocystitides, conjunctivities and mucositis together with growth-retardation, chronic obstipation and anal prolaps.
During a period of 19 days absolute neutropenia was observed.
Retrospectively, neutrophil counts were between 0-500/µl from birth on.
Bone marrow biopsy revealed an arrest of maturation of granulopoiesis at the stage of promyelocytes.
Continuous therapy with 10  µg/kg/d of recombinant human granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) induced 12-day oscillations of blood neutrophil counts.
There were no oscillations of counts of other blood cell lines.
Growth retardation and prolaps of anus normalized, and few intercurrent bacterial infections, pneumonia and impetigo contagiosa occurred.
A mutation in the G-CSF-receptor gene was not found in this patient.
After 2 years of therapy, a reduction of rhG-CSF dose (application every 2 days) lead to a severe neutropenia.
We report a 31-year-old renal transplant patient treated with cyclosporin A who developed an unusual sebaceous gland hyperplasia accompanied by a disseminated follicular spiny hyperkeratosis.
Those alterations were most evident on his face and limbs.
In some locations hairy hyperkeratosis with authentic hair neogenesis was found.
The histology of these alterations showed a marked hyperkeratosis of the hair follicles with formation of hair-like spikes either alone or in connection with hairs.
The presence of true hairs distinguishes our case from the morphologically similar disseminated spiked hyperkeratosis and other spiny keratinization disorders.
Scanning electron microscopy helped to demonstrate the hair-like structure of these keratoses.
Some of the sebaceous glands showed cystic widening of their lumina, which were filled with abundant amorphous eosinophilic material, a finding similar to earlier observations.
Our case demonstrates that these skin alterations should be classified as side effects of cyclosporin A and that they are apparently dose-dependent.
Background: Since increased intraoperative iris irritation can lead to increased postoperative inflammation, we are interested in postoperative reactions to several varied surgical procedures.
We performed pupil stretching, iridotomy with iris suture, and partial sphincterectomy.
Reports of accidental alkaloid-intoxications with plants of the nightshade family, in  particular Datura-species are well known in pediatric care.
The intentional abuse as a hallucinogenic drug in adolescents became more frequent in recent years.
Two patients, a 14- resp.
16-year old boy were admitted to the intensive care units of our hospitals  because of a severe central anticholinergic syndrome after ingestion of tea from Angel's Trumpet blossoms for experimental reasons.
Patient's history in the first somnolent patient was not available at the time of admission, a routine immunological drug screening of the patient's urine had been negative.
In the present case of a granular cell tumor an abdomino-thoracal resection of the esophagus was performed in a 41-year-old patient after preoperative diagnosis had suggested esophageal cancer.
Granular cell tumors (Abrikossoff's tumor) of the esophagus are rather rare tumors of neuroectodermal benign histogenesis.
Diagnosis can be obtained by endoscopic and histological study and immunohistochemical forceps biopsy.
Because of the peculiar histological feature of the tumor, it can be mistaken for an squamous cell carcinoma.
In the guidelines for determination of the blood alcohol level for forensic purposes, a correction factor of 1.2 has been established for the conversion of serum alcohol into blood alcohol based on the relationship of the water content between serum and whole blood.
The reliability of the determination of the blood alcohol level is dependent on the possible minimum and maximum values of this correction factor.
In a comprehensive multicenter study consisting of 833 samples, which can be considered representative of persons involved in offences under the drinking and driving act, an average quotient of 1.16 was found with minimum and maximum values of 1.08 and 1.21 respectively.
In 96% of the cases the quotient was between 1.13 and 1.19 and the deviation of the quotient from the average value was less than 3%.
From these results it can be assumed that the determination of blood alcohol is obviously more reliable than previously presumed.
In Germany, if the dermatologist has definite proof that a patient's skin disorder is severe or chronic, work-related and requiring a change in occupation, then he or she must issue a Berufskrankheitenanzeige (loosely translated as occupational disease notification).
The patient's consent is not required for this mandatory form, which has to be submitted even if the patient is opposed.
On the other hand, if there is only a possible connection between the occupation and the skin disorder, or if the skin disease is neither severe nor chronic nor threatening pursuit of the occupation, then the dermatologist needs only write a Hautarztbericht (dermatologist's report).
The patient's permission is required for this less formal document.
Bone marrow involvement is often observed in patients with hematological malignancies and solid tumors.
Sensitive immunological and molecular biological methods allow the detection of isolated transformed cells in bone marrow samples.
Like normal hematopoietic cells, tumor cells interact with bone marrow stroma through adhesion molecules.
Since adhesion mulecules play an essential role in the invasion and proliferation of malignant cells, new therapeutic approaches involving the inhibition of cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions are conceivable.
With the development of powerful computer systems, computer-assisted medical diagnosis and therapy have become common over the last 10 years.
Even in the surgical field, computer- and robotic-assisted techniques are becoming practical but are not yet used on a daily basis.
In the orthopaedic field, computer and robotic assistance is used in planning and performing demanding three-dimensional osteotomies, setting pedicle screws in the spine and milling the femoral medullary canal in total hip replacement.
This article introduces a computer- and robotic-assisted system for performing arthroplasty in total knee replacement procedures.
The hand is very exposed to injuries in the daily man's work.
The multiple functions of the hand are based on vitality, sensibility, motor function and stability.
In severe hand injuries the functional results of the repair are often very poor.
In a complex injury of the hand we are faced with the damage of the soft tissue and bone and the loss of vitality and function of the hand.
The cause of hand injuries are mainly a crush trauma or the rotating saw.
Basically, we recommend an extended primary repair.
After the radical debridement we have to reconstruct the damaged structures.
We start doing the osteosynthesis and stabilization of the joints.
Thereafter, suturing of extensor and flexor tendons.
Then, we do the microsurgical reconstructions of vessels and nerves.
In case tendons and bones are exposed we have to cover the defect with a pedicled or a free flap.
In a long ischemic time we have to change our concept and do the reconstruction of the vessels first.
Our results in vitality and sensibility are listed.
In the result of a complex hand injury each single functional restoration is very important.
Therefore, it is necessary that severe hand injuries are treated at well established centres for hand surgery.
A 34-year-old women had a hen's egg-sized supernumerary mammary gland with no nipple or areola in the left anterior axillary line for the last 8 years.
The main complaint about the axillary "lump" was that it was aesthetically displeasing, and it was excised.
The importance of an axillary breast lies in the possibility that pathologic changes could develop in its substance and that clinically it could be confused with a lipoma.
Early diagnosis and correct excision are usually recommended.
Paclitaxel and docetaxel are potent drugs that are effective in the treatment of malignant tumors.
The cytotoxic action of these drugs is not fully understood, but it appears to be mediated mainly through mitotic arrest and subsequent apoptosis.
Because no information is available on the antiangiogenesis action of docetaxel, the investigations were performed to determine whether inhibition of neoangiogenesis plays a role in docetaxel's antitumor efficacy.
Four different mouse tumors, two squamous cell carcinomas (SCC-IV; SCC-VII) and two adenocarcinomas (MCA-4; MCA-29) were assayed for angiogenic activity using the in vivo i.c.
Tumor cells (5 x 105) were injected i.c.
into the skin flap over the abdominal wall, and the number of new blood vessels at the tumor cell injection site was determined 2, 4, 6, 8, 10 and 12 days later.
The mice were treated with docetaxel (Taxotere - 31.3 mg/kg i.v.)
1 or 4 days after tumor cell injection.
The number of new blood vessels increased with time.
Docetaxel reduced the number of newly formed blood vessels in MCAs, but not in SCCs.
The reduction was associated with slower tumor growth.
In a separate set of experiments we observed that docetaxel's inhibitory effect on the two MCAs was histologically associated with massive tumor cell destruction by means of both apoptosis and necrosis.
This was not observed for the two SCCs.
Since no reduction in blood vessels occurred in tumors unresponsive to docetaxel, the inhibition of neoangiogenesis in docetaxel-responsive tumors was likely the result of a decrease in angiogenic stimuli due to docetaxel's destruction of tumor cells.
A patient on long term parenteral nutrition developed acrodermatitis enteropathica-like skin changes.
Just as in the autosomal recessive disorder, acrodermatitis enteropathica, the lesions in our patient were caused by zinc deficiency.
Replacement therapy with zinc led to rapid improvement.
A measurement system was developed that permits objective comparisons of the sound conduction of middle ear implants.
The implants are fitted into a mechanical middle ear model which approximates the impedances of the eardrum and the inner ear.
A defined signal within the frequency range of 0-5 kHz is provided by a miniaturized loudspeaker at the input to the model and is  measured by a probe microphone.
Displacement of an artificial stapes footplate at the output of the model is measured by a fiberoptic probe with a sensitivity of 5 nm.
The transmission function is calculated as the quotient of the output and the input signal.
This system can be used to evaluate the sound-transmitting properties of different middle ear implants excepting other influences, such as surgical techniques.
This work details the measurement system and demonstrates basic influences on the sound-transmission of middle ear implants.
In acute myocardial infarction intracoronary stenting is superior to PTCA regarding interventional success and occurrence of cardiac events.
It is, however, uncertain whether myocardial function also improves with stenting.
We, therefore, assessed angiographic parameters of myocardial function in patients with acute myocardial infarction who were treated with primary PTCA and received additional stenting in case of an unsatisfactory angiographic result (provisional stenting).
In order to perform accurate low-flow anaesthesia ventilation, it is desirable to avoid the influence of fresh gas flow (FGF) and inspiration duration (ID) on the resulting minute volume (MV).
The Sulla 808V anaesthesia ventilator (Draeger, Luebeck, Germany) is originally not equipped with a fresh-gas decoupling (FGD) device.
Therefore, changes of FGF and ID settings applied during controlled ventilation may lead to alterations of the resulting MV.
Recently, a low-cost FGD device (Carbamed, Bern-Liebefeld, Switzerland) has been developed, which can be inserted into the circle system.
We investigated the effect of this device on MV in the Sulla 808V anaesthesia apparatus.
Background: In a multicenter study the association of psychosocial stress and the use of psychosocial support in patients with diabetes mellitus was evaluated.
The diagnosis Prader-Willi-Syndrome (PWS) in the neonate is difficult because features like neonatal hypotonia and feeding problems are easily misdiagnosed as a consequence of peripartal asphyxia.
Craniofacial abnormalities like narrow bifrontal diameter, almond shaped palpebral fissures and openend downturned mouth are underdiagnosed especially if respiratory treatment is necessary.
Hypogonadism in girls and in milder expression in boys (for example cryptorchism) are common and unspecific signs at that age.
Typical features like obesity and hyperphagia, small hands and feet and small stature are not expressed until the second year.
The clinical course of PWS in the neonate is demonstrated in two cases.
Diagnostic criteria and therapeutic intervention are discussed.
Hydrops fetalis as a seldom feature in PWS has to be taken into consideration.
Diagnosis-related groups (DRGs) are an instrument for classification of inpatient cases.
DRGs are finding ever broader implementation internationally.
Targets for using DRGs are hospital financing and budgeting, cost accounting and quality assurance.
The present survey covering 18 countries shows that so far DRGs are most frequently used for budgeting purposes.
In addition to DRG-based reimbursement, further quality assurance is necessary, but this is only being implemented with hesitation.
The coverage planned for all inpatient cases through DRG-based reimbursement in Germany from 2003 on is a pioneering challenge internationally.
Background: By law, applicants for driver's licenses not only have to have sufficient vision, but also have to use this sight reliably.
The nystagmus patient takes advantage of ocularly induced head turns and other forms of compensation.
In the approved test procedures he is deprived of such compensations.
Sinde the introduction of the bladder drainage technique, the number of pancreas transplants performed has now reached 1000/year worldwide.
Most of these transplants have been performed in the United States.
In contrast, the number of pancreas transplants performed in the Eurotransplant community has remained at a low level for several years.
The results of a consecutive series of 20 simultaneous pancreas/kidney grafts (SPK) performed between June 1994 and October 1995 demonstrate that high graft function rates of 83.5 % for pancreas and kidney grafts can be achieved.
Therefore SPK can be recommended as a standard procedure for patients with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus and end-stage renal disease in Germany, too.
Intubation and Positive End Expiratory Pressure Ventilation (PEEP) is a well established therapeutic strategy for impaired lung function, particularly following blunt chest trauma.
Complications of this regime are however also well known and pose the question why non-invasive forms of respiratory assistance such as Continuous Positive Airway Pressure (CPAP) have only gained minor popularity.
In a prospective study, 30 patients who had suffered blunt chest trauma were treated with CPAP administered by mask.
The regime consisted of continuous administration of CPAP by a face-mask, with gradually increasing periods of spontaneous breathing.
Initially a FiO2 of 0.33 (range 0,28-0,38) proved necessary.
The initial CPAP level was 7 mbar (range 5-8) with an (Assisted Spontaneous Breathing) ASB of 15 mbar (range 13-18).
FiO2 and CPAP/ASB levels were subsequently gradually reduced until no longer necessary.
In all patients intubation and ventilation was avoided by this regimen.
The treatment was well accepted by all patients and common ventilation associated complications such as pneumonia did not occur.
In comparison with the former standard method of treatment the average ICU stay was dramatically reduced, principally due to not having to gradually wean patients from ventilation and sedation.
Other positive benefits include normal communication and feeding with active early mobilisation leading to faster recovery, both physical and psychological.
We conclude that non-invasive respiratory techniques should be used more frequently and recommend further studies are undertaken to define the indications.
Abstract:  Clinical findings and the correct assessment of the morphology and degree of stenosis is a decidant point in the conservative and operative therapy of carotid stenosis.
Diagnosis should be reached fast, sure and cost-effective with a high sensitivity and specifity.
Current methods for articular cartilage repair are unpredictable with respect to clinical success.
In the present study, we investigated the ability of cells from articular cartilage, perichondrium, and costochondral resting zone to form new cartilage when loaded onto biodegradable scaffolds and implanted into calf muscle pouches of nu/nu mice.
Prior in vitro studies showed that platelet derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB), but not transforming growth factor beta-1 (TGF-1), basic fibroblast growth factor, or bone morphogenetic protein-2 promoted proliferation and extracellular matrix sulfation of resting zone chondrocytes without causing the cells to exhibit a hypertrophic chondrocyte phenotype.
TGF-1 has also been shown to stimulate chondrogenesis by multipotent chondroprogenitor cells like those in the perichondrium.
In addition, PDGF-BB has been shown to modulate chondrogensis by resting zone cells implanted in poly(D,L-lactide-co-glycolide) (PLG) scaffolds.
In the present study we examined whether the cartilage formation is dependent on state of chondrocyte maturation and whether the pretreatment of chondrocytes with growth factors has an influence on the cartilage formation.
Scaffolds were manufactured from 80 % PLG with a 75:25 lactide:glycolide ratio and 20 % modified PLG with a 50:50 lactide:glycolide ratio (PLG-H scaffolds).
For each experimental group, four nude mice received two identical implants, one in each calf muscle resulting in an N = 8 implants: PLG-H scaffolds alone; PLG-H scaffolds with cells derived from either the femoral articular cartilage, costochondral periochondrium, or costochondral resting zone cartilage of 125 g male Sprague-Dawley rats; PLG-H scaffolds with either articular chondrocytes or resting zone chondrocytes that were pretreated with 37,5 ng/ml rhPDGF-BB for 4 h or 24 h before implantation, or with perichondrial cells treated with PDGF-BB plus 0,22 ng/ml rhTGF-1 for 4 h and 24 h. At 4 or 8 weeks after implantation, samples were harvested and analyzed histomorphometrically for new cartilage formed, area of residual implant and area of fibrous connective tissue.
Only resting zone cells showed the ability to form new cartilage at a heterotopic site in this study.
There was no neocartilage found in nude mice with implants loaded with either articular chondrocytes or perichondrial cells.
Pretreatment of resting zone chondrocytes for 4 h prior to implantation significantly increased the amount of newly formed cartilage after 8 weeks and suppressed chondrocyte hypertrophy.
The amount of fibrous connective tissue around implants containing either articular chondrocytes or perichondrial cells decreased with time, whereas the amount of fibrous connective tissue around implants containing resting zone chondrocytes pretreated with PDGF-BB was increased.
The results showed that resting zone cells can be successfully incorporated into biodegradable porous PLG scaffolds and can induce new cartilage formation in a non-weight-bearing site.
Articular chondrocytes as well as perichondrial cells did not have the capacity for neochondrogenesis when implanted heterotopically in this model.
Bone tumors represent a group of tumors of various dignity.
In spite of this single tumor entities may display strong morphological resemblance to each other which can in turn result in profound difficulties in differential diagnosis.
The biological behaviour of a tumor is mainly determined by its rate of proliferation.
In this study the rate of proliferation of 64 bone tumors (30 high-grade central osteosarcomas, 6 low-grade osteosarcomas, 8 giant cell tumors, 8 aneurysmatic bone cysts, 5 osteoidosteomas/osteoblastomas, 7 fibrous dysplasias and 5 cases of a myositis ossificans) were analysed.
Immunohistochemistry was performed on paraffin-embedded tissue sections using the MIB-1 monoclonal antibody.
MIB-1 recognizes the proliferation-associated Ki-67 protein which is expressed during the active phases of the cell cycle but cannot be detected in senescent cells.
Among high-grade central osteosarcomas a significantly higher rate of proliferation (average value 30 %) was found in comparison with low-grade osteosarcomas and other benign intraosseous bone tumors.
This approach proved to be very useful in the distinction between high-grade and low-grade osteosarcomas as well as bone-forming intraosseous tumors.
However distinguishing low-grade osteosarcomas from benign bone tumors by determining only the rate of proliferation was not possible, although interestingly, the proliferative rate of myositis ossificans, a purely reactive lesion, was in the range of the values determined for high-grade osteosarcoma.
Over the past century numerous graft materials have been used for the reconstruction of the cruciate ligament of the knee.
Among the autologous tissues that are currently recommended as graft materials, the central bone patellar tendon bone graft, a quadrupled hamstring graft and the central quadriceps tendon graft have the greatest clinical significance.
With some limitations, allograft materials can also be used.
Each of the three mentioned grafts has specific features regarding morphological and structural properties, graft fixation and graft incorporation.
Clinical studies have failed to identify any of the three grafts as superior to the others.
When choosing the graft for surgery the different anatomy and function of the anterior and posterior cruciate ligaments have to be considered.
For the treatment of multiple ligament injuries and for revision cases, thorough preoperative planning is necessary and modified graft selection may be required.
Myasthenic crisis is a lifethreatening complication of myasthenia gravis due to respiratory failure and inability to swallow and cough up secretions.
Frequent causes are intercurrent infections, fluctuations due to the natural history of the disease and insufficient immunosuppressive treatment prior to the crisis.
Early referral to an experienced neurologist is essential.
Specific therapy consists of symptomatic treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors, crisis management with plasmapheresis or immunoglobulins and immunosuppression with clucocorticoids.
Infections must be treated vigorously.
Thymectomy in patients with previously unrecognized myasthenia gravis is never urgently indicated and should be postponed until the patient is stabilized.
In cases of impending respiratory failure and severe swallowing difficulties, early and elective admission to a specialized neurological intensive care unit and elective intubation should be performed.
Adequate nursing care of intubated patients and a set of prophylactic measures are essential to avoid complications adversely affecting prognosis.
Whenever it can be achieved, the best therapy of myasthenic crisis is its prevention by appropriate long-term management and follow-up of patients with myasthenia gravis.
In a retrospective analysis we evaluated 48 patients who had been arthroscopically treated for tendinitis calcarea.
The calcific deposit was removed whenever possible and all patients were treated by arthroscopic subacromial decompression.
In subjects who showed subacromial stenosis by X-ray or by intraoperative findings, an arthroscopic acromioplasty was performed.
At follow-up all patients were evaluated according to the Constant score.
Additionally all pre- and postoperative X-rays were reviewed.
After surgery the Constant score significantly improved.
In all cases where acromioplasty was performed, a flattening of the bony configuration was achieved.
The X-ray analysis showed that no calcific deposit with blurred borders converted to sharp borders.
There was also no deposit that converted from a transparent appearance to a dense structure.
Patients with disappearance of the calcific deposit postoperatively had significantly better outcome than patients with no change in the X-ray.
An additional acromioplasty did not improve the results.
The aim of arthroscopic treatment of calcific tendinitis has to be the removal of the calcific deposit.
Acromioplasty does not lead to further improvement of the result.
Preventive strategies aim to reduce gastric acidity (H2ms (sucralfate, antacids, pirenzepine) and to normalize gastric mucosal microcirculation (sucralfate, pirenzepine).
Thus, the most important prophylactic measure is an optimized emergency and ICU regime aiming to improve oxygenation and microcirculation.
All specific drugs used for stress ulcer prophylaxis have been shown to be effective in prospective controlled studies.
Furthermore, pirenzepine has been found to be superior to H2-antagonists, at least in neurosurgical patients.
Insufficient or no data exist to support the use of prostaglandins or omeprazole for stress ulcer prophylaxis.
The most important adverse effect of stress ulcer prophylaxis is nosocomial pneumonia due to gastric alkalinization.
This may occur in long-term ventilated patients with a gastric pH>4 and may account for up to 50% of all nosocomial pneumonias in certain groups of patients.
Mortality is not influenced by antacids or H2-antagonists, while sucralfate has been shown to reduce mortality, most probably by inhibition of bacterial translocation.
Three years after heart transplantation and immunosuppressive therapy, a 66-year-old man suffered from dyspnea and showed symptoms mainly due to right heart failure.
Malignant tumor cells were discovered within extensive pleural effusion.
Computed tomography revealed two lesions of the liver suspicious of metastases, and recurrent blood in the stools was evident.
The patient deteriorated rapidly and died 3 weeks after admission.
Autopsy findings included an adenocarcinoma of the cecum (grade II) with metastases to the liver.
High-grade immunoblastic non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of plasmoblastic differentiation was diagnosed, located within the mediastinal soft tissue and infiltrating the peri- and myocardium.
Mesenteric lymph nodes were enlarged with histological verification of malignant lymphoma.
The lymphatic tumor masses had caused considerable compression of the heart and vessels, leading to the signs of cardiac failure.
The development of metastasizing colonic carcinoma and high-grade immunoblastic non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 3 years after heart transplantation and immunosuppressive therapy must be considered an unusual combination.
Malignant lymphomas following heart transplantation have been described several times.
Infection rates are important markers for clinical quality assurance.
For internal control, they may only be used under the condition of homogeneous data collection and evaluation according to identical standard operating procedures during the entire investigation period.
For inter-hospital comparison, they may only be used if additionally the observed patient groups are well defined and comparable.
A survey of the infection rates published during the last 6 years in the German traumatological literature (n = 71) indeed shows (concerning series later than 1985) similar infection rates for procedures in less and in more problematic anatomical regions and in clean and contaminated situations of about 2 - 3%, after open injuries sporadically max.
Finally, it is demonstrated that conclusions concerning a general "risk of infection" based on infection rates for specific surgical procedures are not possible and vice versa.
We strongly recommend the future application of a standardized definition of wound infection.
The differentiation between deep and superficial infection should be abandoned.
For all mentioned "infection rates" it should be indicated whether it is with reference to the risk of infection of a specific procedure or only a general statement.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) are useful techniques for the objective documentation of the relation between the femoral head and the acetabulum after closed or open reduction of a developmental dislocation of the hip joint.
Before the ossification nucleus of the femoral head is sufficiently developed, MRI is preferred.
For the evaluation of reduction from the 2nd year on, MRI and CT are equivalent.
However, in older children MRI may also be indicated for the evaluation of cartilaginous structures or the diagnosis of femoral head necrosis.
CT in older patients may also be useful for 30 analysis of bony structures, e. g. for planning complex osteotomies.
Careful diagnostic and early therapy are especially important in cases of scaphoid fractures.
This is due to the patients being mostly young and the high number of non-unions of these carpal bones.
Conservative and various operative treatments are therapeutical options.
Out of the patients who underwent surgery from January 1993 to February 1999 42 patients with a scaphoid fracture and 88 patients with a scaphoid non-union were, in addition to standard X-ray examination, examined clinically and by MRI pre- and post-operatively.
Fractures of the scaphoid were treated by Herbert screw fixtion.
When there is a possibility that tissue samples have been interchanged, DNA analysis of the histological specimens can be carried out to correctly assign the specimens to a patient.
The use of polymerase chain reaction enables results to be obtained even from degraded DNA in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded samples.
A review of 110 children with Burkitt's lymphoma admitted to the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu during a 7-year period revealed a preponderance of males over females (1.9 : 1) and a peak incidence at five years.
The main sites affected initially by the tumour in order of frequency were the face and abdomen.
The spinal column, spleen, and lungs were less affected.
It is postulated that an interaction between malarial and Epstein-Barr virus infections and malnutrition are important in the aetiology of the tumour.
The most effective drug is cyclophosphamide.
A combination of this drug with vincristine and methotrexate is equally effective in inducing remissions, but is better than the single agent in preventing systemic relapse.
Follow-up of the patients revealed good survival.
The consumption of the jet set drug Ecstasy (3,4-methylenedioxymetamphetamine, abbreviated to MDMA) by young people is increasing markedly.
Parallel to this developement, there is a large number of reports on severe neurological, psychiatric and medical complications following the use of Ecstasy.
Seizures are among the most common clinical complications of the CNS following the ingestion of Ecstasy.
The term "mild cognitive impairment" refers to cognitive deficits which exceed normal physiological aging processes, but do not fulfill the criteria for dementia.
The prevalence rates of four current concepts were compared in a sample of 202 healthy 60-64 year-old participants recruited from the interdisciplinary longitudinal study on adult development and aging (ILSE).
Furthermore, the relationships between cognitive deficits and psychological and sociodemographic variables were examined.
The following prevalence rates were determined: 13.5% for age-associated memory impairment, 6.5% for age-consistent memory impairment, 1.5% for late-life forgetfulness and 23.5% for aging-associated cognitive decline.
Subjective cognitive complaints did not correlate with results obtained from neuropsychological tests.
Significant correlations were however found between subjective cognitive complaints and higher scores on depression and neuroticism scales.
Significant correlations were also found between a reduced test performance and a lower educational level and socioeconomic status.
Longitudinal studies are warranted to further elucidate the predictive value of these diagnostic concepts.
In a retrospective study, we evaluated 180 patients treated for painful spondylolisthesis with combined anterior and posterior fusion.
Group I included 90 patients treated by anterior fusion with the transperitoneal approach.
Group II included 90 patients operated on with a retroperitoneal approach.
Group II showed a higher incidence of pseudarthrosis L5/S1 (4 %), tear of the common iliac vein (1 %), postsympathectomy syndrome (4 %) and reversible L4 nerve-root lesion (3 %).
On the basis of our findings, we recommend the transperitoneal approach for anterior interbody fusion L5 to S1 or L4 to S1.
Coronary surgery is at this point of time the standard therapy of unprotected left main coronary artery stenosis.
Coronary angioplasty (PTCA) is performed only in bail out situations.
The number of publications of successful percutaneous intervention in unprotected left main coronary stenosis is increasing because of increasing use of stents and ticlopidine to avoid stent-thrombosis.
Within the context of an extensive study of electroconvulsive therapy at the Psychiatric Clinic of the University of Bonn 15 patients suffering from therapy-resistent Major depression (DSM III-R) were examined with a detailed psychometric test battery, containing memory- and nonmemory tests.
The test battery had been applied short time before, during and after the treatment with 10 ECT applied unilateral over the nondominant hemisphere.
Comparing the test performances before and 1-2 days after the end of the series there were only few remarkable changes: a significant decrease was diagnosed exclusively in 30 min delayed recall of verbal items, while visual short-term memory and visual-constructive performance showed a significant improvement (in spite of unilateral stimulation on the right side).
None of the other cognitive functions inclusively speed of performances and reaction time was detracted short time after the end of the ECT-treatment, instead all the measures improved albeit not significantly.
Between responders to treatment (50% improvement in HAMD) and non-responders no significant differences neither before nor after the treatment were detected.
The non-responders had in nearly all of the tests some better (but not significantly) results despite being older than the group of responders.
In this study we assessed the drawing abilities in 37 patients with probable Alzheimer's disease according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria.
Drawing abilities (drawing: house, flower, clock; Rey-Osterrieth figure; copying: MMST-figure; Rey-Osterrieth figure) were quantified with different rating schemes and related to other neuropsychological assessments.
All patients underwent a positron emission tomography with 18-FDG.
Drawing performance was highly correlated with severity of dementia - expressed in MMST scores (r=0.78; p<0.0001) - with visuo-spatial short-term memory (r=-0.69; p=0.001), and writing abilities (r=-0.77; p<0.0001).
The summarized drawing score showed a statistically significant correlation with the rate of temporoparietal glucose metabolism measured with positron emission tomography and 18-FDG (r=0.39; p=0.017).
In the drawings of AD patients omittings and simplifications were typical, whereas perseverations rarely occured.
In severely demented patients closing-in phenomenons could be de- scribed, too.
A subgroup of AD patients with visuo-constructive impairment as the leading symptom could not be identified.
Since the first dermatological outpatient clinic was started in Dresden in 1869, it has seen the practice of dermatology in the broadest sense, with scientific research activity and innovation.
The good working relationship between the dermatologists in private practice and those in the clinics has been the main factor in this successful development.
The traditional background of the following sectors is highlighted: outpatient clinic, X-ray and UV ligth treatment, allergology and occupational dermatology, psychosomatic dermatology, dermatosurgery, and phlebology.
A 12-year-old girl from Zaire with Aids (CDC: P2 D1) presented with a generalized molluscum contagiosum infection.
She had suffered from systemic cryptococcosis and from cryptosporidiosis several months before admission.
While molluscum contagiosum infection is usually a self-limiting disease in immunocompetent persons, a fulminant appearance and persistence of giant mollusca occurs with advanced immunodeficiency.
Histological and immunohistological examinations showed a severe diminution of Langerhans and T cell populations that might enhance the dissemination of the infection.
Molluscum-like lesions of cryptococci have been described, and cutaneous cryptococcosis is the main condition to be considered in the differential diagnosis.
Further differential diagnoses should include American and African histoplasmosis, and the cutaneous manifestations of mycobacterial infections, of toxoplasmosis and of Pneumocystis carinii infection.
The search for vascular structures in skin tumors by incident light microscopy has revealed a surprisingly high proportion of vascularized tumours.
Characteristic vascular patterns, in some cases highly tumour-specific, have been defined.
The vascular structure is a valuable feature for characterization and differentiation of skin tumours, especially for amelanotic malignant melanoma.
We propose a flowchart procedure for analysis and diagnosis of skin tumours using incident light microscopy, which appears to be valuable for advanced image analytic techniques.
Introduction: The treatment of full-thickness cartilage defects still represents a problem that has not yet been solved satisfactorily.
Current methods used to cover defects in the knee joint are osteochondral cylinder transplantation (OCT) and autologous chondrocyte transplantation (ACT).
Methods: With a prospective clinical investigation, at the time being with 2-year results, we have examined ACT in comparison to OCT in 20 patients with regard to clinical and histomorphological (histology, immunohistochemistry, RES) outcome.
Results: We found equally good results with both methods in Lysholm, Meyers and Tegner Activity Scores.
Histomorphologic evaluation of biopsies obtained by arthroscopy after ACT showed a defect filling in all cases, mainly with fibrous cartilage, while localized areas of hyalinelike regenerative cartilage were documented near the base.We did not see any histomorphologically visible change in the transplants after OCT.
Conclusion: At the time we prefer OCT instead of ACT given the correct indication.
This case report intends to focus attention on hemodynamic TIAs as cause of repetitive involuntary movements (RIMs) as differential diagnosis of simple partial motor seizures.
We report two patients with episodic unilateral limb shaking lasting up to several minutes and which could be triggered by orthostasis, heat or physical exertion.
Repeated EEG recordings revealed no epileptic discharges.
In both patients, duplex ultrasonography revealed an occlusion of the internal carotid artery (ICA) contralateral to the side of the RIMs.
Blood flow velocities in the middle cerebral artery ipsilateral to ICA occlusion were reduced and vasomotor reactivity to hypercapnia was absent.
After elevation of blood pressure both patients became asymptomatic.
We suggest that in patients with episodes of RIMs, Doppler sonography and tests of cerebral vascular reserve capacity should be performed to search for a hemodynamic origin of these symptoms.
Ethylene dichloride (EDC) is used as a solvent and in the rubber, plastic, and insecticide industry.
The fatal adult dose is below 20 ml.
Poisoning can occur from inhalation, ingestion or skin absorption.
EDC depresses almost all cells, but essentially those of the central nervous system, liver, kidneys, and heart.
Death is usually due to liver or central nervous failure.
Retrospectively analyzing the history of three patients with gastrointesinal stromal tumors (GIST) treated over a period of 1 year in the surgical department of our regional hospital, we tried to answer the following questions: using the current recommendations in the literature, how are the macro- and microscopic features and clinical presentation to be interpreted?
Which prognostic and therapeutic conclusions should we draw, giving special consideration to practice-orientated management of such cases.
The patients were 65, 75 and 88 years old respectively, and in each case the GIST manifested as recurrent gastrointestinal bleeding.
During surgical treatment four gastric tumors ranging in cross section between 2.5 and 8 cm were found.
The GIST diagnosis was established after light microscopic and immunohistochemical examinations.
Going through the current literature, a large number of structural and immunohistochemical criteria have come to light for determining its classification and potential malignancy.
On the other hand, very few subsequent recommendations concerning therapy and prognosis can be found and follow-up recomendations are almost unavailable.
We conclude that GISTs are difficult to diagnose because of their locality and that their clinical behavior is uncertain.
The potential malignancy, on the other hand, requires a well-founded diagnostic procedure in the form of the best possible pre-therapeutic staging.
Furthermore, initially radical surgical treatment should be adopted and the follow-up should be adapted to the risk involved.
The latter is arbitrary and further clinical studies are required.
In animal experiments and clinical studies liquid ventilation with perfluorcarbons improves gas exchange and breathing mechanics in damaged lungs.
According to the data on the toxicity of perfluorcarbons available today, it could potentially be applied in infants in the future, too.
However, the catalogue of unanswered questions is still too long for controlled clinical phase III studies to be conducted.
Further possible applications of liquid ventilation offer hope of solving open therapeutic and diagnostic problems.
Taking into account all available data about liquid ventilation with perfluorcarbons today, we still do not know whether it is a real alternative method for respiratory support; however, further studies to investigate whether the method is an alternative strategy for artificial ventilation in neonates are justified.
The role of elective lymph node dissection (ELND) in primary malignant melanoma is controversial.
Our purpose was to evaluate the benefit of ELND regarding survival and disease-free survival in malignant melanoma of the trunk and extremities.
By matched-pair analysis, 375 patients treated by wide local excision (WLE) plus ELND were compared to 375 patients treated by WLE only.
There was no difference in survival between the two treatment groups; however, the disease-free interval was significantly higher in the collective treated by WLE plus ELND (P<0.05).
Increased survival rates were noted for intermediate tumor thickness of 1.51-4.0 mm for the WLE+ELND group although the difference was not significant (P=0.14), and disease-free survival was significantly improved in this group (P<0.001).
ELND elicited a higher benefit in male patients with intermediate thickness melanoma.
Our results confirm the findings of several studies that ELND improves the outcome after primary treament of malignant melanoma of intermediate tumor thickness.
7 patients (5 female, 2 male; age:  22-81 years; average age=58,1 J) with recurrent necrotizing ANCA-negative, non leucocytoclastic vasculitis, were enrolled into this study.
Disease was resistant to prior conservative therapy, and therefore patients received high dose intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) - (dose: 1,0 g/kg body weight daily dose 0,25 g/kg body weight over 4 consecutive days).
All patients responded rapidly to this therapeutic regimen.
Specifically immediate pain relief was striking.
Complete clearance of disease was observed in 5 out of 7 patients within 6 months while receiving IVIG (0,5 g/kg body weight) every 4 weeks for one year.
In 2 out of 5 patients ulceration and vasculitis healed completly and therapy could be stopped after 6 months.
In one patient treatment had to be discontinued due to decreasing kidney function.
The data presented demonstrate that IVIG is an  effective and valuable therapeutic modality in treatment of severe vasculitis resistant to conventional therapy.
However consideration of costs, effectiveness and possible side effects is needed for this therapeutic regime.
After orthopedic surgery, skeletal muscle will enter the rehabilitation process in weakened condition due to the following characteristics.
After use of a tourniquet during surgery, the muscle suffers ischemia/reperfusion damage due to oxidative stress, resulting in structural impairment.
The resulting immobilization leads to muscular atrophy, with a loss of calcium homeostasis and oxidative stress being of etiological significance.
Degeneration of muscle fibers as well as regeneration occurs in muscle while still immobilized.
After remobilization, the muscle has impaired functional capacity and frequently shows disturbances in its innervation pattern.
High mechanical loading should therefore be avoided, and electrical stimulation may be applied to facilitate recovery.
Considering the role of oxygen radicals, supplementation with vitamin E appears generally recommendable.
The timing of surgery and postoperative radiotherapy - especially if combined with chemotherapy - has been a subject of interest over the past years.
This analysis was based on a literature review of mostly retrospective publications.
Data concerning the interval between surgery and radiotherapy were correlated with the locoregional control, incidence of distant metastases and prognosis of breast cancer, lung carcinoma, and head and neck carcinomas.
The reviewed data did not show a clear relationship of the time interval between surgery and start of radiotherapy and locoregional control.
However, evaluation of the data was difficult, because in most publications, retrospective analyses were performed and other prognostically more relevant parameters may influence locoregional control stronger than the time interval.
In patients with head and neck carcinomas, there is a negative effect of time interval between surgery and radiotherapy on local control if unfavorable factors exist, i. e., close surgical margins, unfavorable pathohistological parameters and low radiation dose.
In patients with breast cancer who do not receive chemotherapy, there are inconsistent reports in the literature.
If additional chemotherapy is necessary, the sequence surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy seems adequate.
Although some data suggest that delaying the initiation of radiotherapy due to chemotherapy may increase the risk or local recurrences, there may, on the other hand, be an increased likelihood of systemic metastases, if radiotherapy is applied before chemotherapy.
Concerning lung cancer, only one retrospective analysis exists suggesting a better survival of patients with an interval of more than 36 days between surgery and radiotherapy as compared to patients with a shorter interval.
The treatment of severely injured patients is a challenge for preclinical and clinical treatment concepts, causing financial aspects of increasing importance for the German health care system.
A total of 32,500 polytraumatized patients (PTS III and IV) are managed in trauma center levels I-IV in Germany.
Trauma center levels I or II are by definition capable of supporting the full range of treatment for the severely injured.
With the baseline calculation of 64,000 DM per patient and 104 polytrauma treated per year in the Berlin Virchow Clinic, 6.66 million DM primary costs must be spent for treatment.
The total annual costs of this center are nearly 24 million DM for emergency cases and 7 million DM fixed costs per year, for a trauma center level I.
In Europe the distribution of trauma center levels I or II is sufficient and can be specified with 1 center per 1 million inhabitants.
Nevertheless, the european air medical service could support more intensive use of these central trauma institutions.
This was shown by comparing the number of polytrauma patients and the number of trauma centers.
Less then half of these patients are treated in levels I or II trauma centers.
The financial pressure on the health system and the rising quality must lead to better utilization of trauma centers.
To meet this goal a annual treatment rate of 300-400 polytrauma patients should be aimed at.
The claim of the American College of Surgeons that a trauma surgeon should treat 50 severely injured patients per year would then be possible.
This report is a retrospective investigation of the efficacy of bioenergetic therapies given to adults in a private practice setting and furthermore a study of the stability of the therapeutic results achieved.
In the spring of 1997 a total of 16 bioenergetic therapists (6 of them medical doctors and 10 psychologists), all members of the Swiss Society of Bioenergetic Therapists (SGBAT), provided upon request a number of data on 319 patients who had terminated their therapies after a minimum of 20 sessions 6 months to 6 years earlier.
A self-evaluating questionnaire was then constructed, to be answered anonymously, and was sent to these 319 patients in late summer 1997; 290 of them could be reached and 142 (49%) returned it.
The questionnaire contained questions related to the psychic and physical condition, to interpersonal and psychosomatic problems, and to the effect of body work on physical consciousness, cognitive insights and changes of the quality of life.
Regarding the efficacy of bioenergetic therapies, the statistical analysis of the returned questionnaires showed significant positive changes in all areas questioned.
Bioenergetic body work was judged to be important and indispensable by about half of the patients.
Regarding the stability of the therapeutic result, 107 patients indicated a stable or even improved condition.
Of the 35 patients who since termination of the bioenergetic therapy had chosen to undergo further therapy, 16 opted again for a body-oriented psychotherapy.
Purpose: In a clinical study 35 patients with intracranial aneurysms were examined using CT-angiography, MR-angiography (MRA) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA).
The aim of the study was to establish the ability of noninvasive techniques to detect intracranial aneurysms.
"Classic" choroidal neovascularization (CNV) has a relatively uniform appearance in fluorescein angiography.
In contrast, indocyanine green (ICG) angiography shows variable features of well-defined CNV.
We examined 31 classic CNV patients secondary to age-related macular degeneration using a confocal laser scanning ophthalmoscope (Heidelberg Retina Angiograph) in order to determine ICG characteristics of classic CNV.
Vascular patterns (97%), a hypofluorescent rim (84%), a hyperfluorescent margin (42%), late ICG leakage (32%) and "feeder vessels" were identified in variable frequency.
Some of the ICG characteristics may correlate with histological features of the membrane and reflect proliferative activity.
Extrafoveal "feeder vessels" may be amenable to laser photocoagulation in the presence of subfoveal CNV.
In situ polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and PCR in situ hybridization are new diagnostic tools in dermatopathology.
These techniques can combine the sensitivity of PCR with the advantage of in situ hybridization to localize specific cellular structures.
With optical control of the PCR reaction product in these techniques, false-positive results due to contamination can be minimized.
Several working protocols have been established which allow detection of DNA and RNA sequences in a rapid and reproducible manner.
Two different methods have been established to detect the amplification product, the indirect PCR in situ hybridization (PCRisHyb), and the direct in situ PCR (is PCR).
An easy and reproducible method for PCRisHyb and isPCR in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue is described and the two techniques are compared.
Using both isPCR and PCRisHyb, the amplification product can be visualized with an optimal morphological preservation of the tissue.
Indirect PCRisHyb showed a slightly higher specificity whereas direct isPCR was the quicker, easier and less expensive method.
In a randomized study 30 patients with chronic stationary psoriasis were treated with 3 different topical schemes.
Group 1 (n=10) received monotherapy (dithranol (D) twice a day, D/D), group 2 (n=10) calcipotriol mornings/dithranol evenings (calcipotriol (C)/dithranol (D) C/D) and 3 (mometasone (M) mornings/dithranol (D) evenings, M/D).
During the therapy period of 4 weeks we documented the PASI-Score as well as infiltration, erythema and desquamation weekly.
The M/D group revealed in the first week a significantly faster reduction of the PASI-score (5,3) than in the D/D group (PASI 13,22).
The C/D group (PASI 10,5) show a not significantly faster reduction.
After 4 weeks of treatment and after a follow period of 6 weeks there were similar PASI-Scores in all groups.
There were less side-effects in the M/D group than in the others.
The beginning, more anti-psoriatic effectiveness was achieved by the mometasone/dithranol combination than the other schemes.
In the long term, the effects were similar.
This report describes a distinctive pattern of findings in peripheral sensory-nociceptive afferent nerves after spinal injury.
Subsequent to trauma there was segmental, multisegmental or hemilateral hypoaesthesia with refractory, intenseful painful symptoms.
None of the classical neurological causes for such hypoaesthesia were present.
"Normal" therapy resulted in more severe symptoms.
Depending on the distribution of the hypo- or anaesthesia, there were also efferent symptoms (coordination problems, impairments of proprioception, etc.).
Colleagues who have made similar observations or are familiar with these symptoms are cordially invited to assist with the interpretation of this clinical picture.
The pharynx, being part of the digestive as well as the respiratory system, is embedded in the complex spatial anatomy of the neck and, due to its function and location, represents a very sophisticated region.
Cisatracurium (51W89, Nimbex, Glaxo-Wellcome), an intermediate-acting non-depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent, is a stereoisomer of atracurium.
Histamine releasing propensities and serum tryptase level have been investigated after administration of cisatracurium (3xED95, 5xED95) or vecuronium (3xED90) in surgical patients.
Methods: After approval by our institutional review board, 62 patients (ASA I-II) were randomly assigned to three groups to receive either 3xED95 or 5xED95 cisatracurium, or 3xED90 vecuronium as a rapid bolus.
A prick test was done the day before by scarification of the skin in the forearm.
After premedication with 2 mg lormetazepam, anaesthesia was induced with thiopentone (4-12 mg/kg) and maintained with O2/N2O and isoflurane (1.5-2 vol.%).
Six minutes after thiopentone, the patients received the relaxant, and after further 6 min 0.1-0.2 mg fentanyl was given and the trachea was intubated.
Heart rate (HR) and blood pressure (BP) were monitored every minute.
Blood samples for histamine were withdrawn 5 min prior 3 and 5 min after each drug administration (thiopentone, relaxants).
Plasma histamine was measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA) with a sensitivity of approximately 10 pg/ml.
Additionally, serum tryptase was measured by RIA at baseline (-10 and  -1 min) and 15 and 60 min after the relaxant administration.
Levels for histamine >1000 pg/ml and for tryptase >2 µg/ml were considered significant.
Cutaneous signs of histamine release were documented.
Results: Ten patients showed a positive prick-test reaction.
Only after thiopentone some cutaneous signs (4 flush, 1 erythema) of histamine release were observed.
There were no cutaneous signs of histamine release correlating with cardiovascular changes.
Analysis of the blood samples demonstrated no significant increase in the histamine level in all three groups.
Only in 1 patient was a significant higher histamine level (1133 pg/ml) measured 5 min after 5xED95 cisatracurium.
All measurements of serum tryptase were within the physiological limits.
Discussion: In this study, with the particular time course of drug administration, neither cisatracurium nor vecuronium increased plasma histamine levels.
Only after 5xED95 cisatracurium was 1 elevated histamine level documented after 5 min.
In several studies increased histamine levels have been described, but without clinical manifestations.
It is known that cutaneous signs can occur without increased plasma histamine levels due to the structural heterogeneity of mast cells.
The cutaneous reactions in this study were caused by thiopentone.
The tryptase values were within normal limits even in the patient with histamine release.
No relationship between the positive results in the prick test and the incidence of cutaneous reactions and/or histamine release for drugs used in the induction of anaesthesia was observed.
Whether cisatracurium has a potential for immunologic release is unknown.
We report on a psychosis caused by application of a transdermal scopolamine patch for over 15 days.
In the literature there is no mention of a case in which scopolamine had such an influence nor are any cases reported in which paranoid-hallucinatory symptoms cortinued 11 days after removing the patch.
Bone and joint tuberculosis, as all other types of tuberculosis is generally treated with antituberculotic combination chemotherapy.
This has to be continued for a minimum of six months, or nine months in case of extensive spreading.
A two- to three-month initial phase with four or five different drugs (H, R, Z, and additionally E and/or S) is followed by a four- to six-month therapy with H and R alone, provided the pathogen is fully susceptible to a standard regimen.
The main side effects are hepatotoxic or allergic reactions.
A frequent contra-indication is existing, often toxicity-induced, liver damage.
The main local complications requiring surgery are spinal instability or neurologic deficiencies.
This report concerns the case of a patient who had suffered a massive pulmonary embolus and for whom, despite immediately administered thrombolytic therapy with rt-PA it became necessary to initiate reanimation procedures.
The patient was subsequently admitted to our cardiac surgery clinic for the purpose of operative intervention.
After femorofemoral coupling on the heart-lung machine, right ventricular relieve was rapidly attained.
During the course of a 3-hour period of extracorporal circulation, the initially significantly elevated pulmonary pressures were able to be reduced to moderate levels.
Correspondingly, right ventricular recovery could be echocardiographically determined.
As a consequence of this development, and after preclusion the presence of any large thrombotic masses which might have been situated in the pulmonary trunk, it was possible to forego thoracotomy and embolectomy.
This procedure allowed, on the one hand, the avoidance of imminent right ventricular failure through the use of the heart-lung machine.
On the other, due to the lessening of the degree of surgical intervention, the risk of grave hemorrhaging as a result of concurrent thrombolytic therapy could be minimalized.
After an uneventful course, the patient was able to be transferred on the second postoperative day with normal pulmonary pressure values.
Objectives Correction of bone deformities at metaphyseo-epiphyseal level of long bones through a corticotomy and gradual distraction.
Restoration of shape and function of lower limb.
Septic abortion remains one of the most serious threats to the health and life of women throughout the world.
Morbidity and mortality are infrequent in countries where induced abortion is legal and medically well organized, but widespread in many developing countries where it is either illegal or inaccessible.
We observed two patients with stone formation in the renal pelvis two and five years after pyeloplasty.
In both cases there was no obstruction of the pyeloureteral junction detectable.
We consider the use of Polyglactin (Vicryl) for the pelvis suture as reason for the stone formation.
For stone removal we favourite an endoscopic procedure, in which a removal of residuums of the suture is even possible as the verification of the pyeloureteral junction.
Aim of the study: The aim was to determine the efficiency of a secure control of ventilation in emergency medicine by using capnometry.
This question was of special interest for mechanically ventilated patients with cerebral diseases, because here hyperventilation as well as hypoventilation can result in severe consequences.
The advent of the excimer laser has brought about the potential for improved vision in many individuals with myopia and astigmatism.
However, photoastigmatic refractive keratectomy (PARK) remains a matter of controversy.
The purpose of our study was to determine the predictability of VISX 20/20 excimer laser photorefractive keratectomy in the treatment of myopic astigmatism.
In Germany, insect allergies cause about 10-40 death per year.
Starting a specific immunotherapy (SIT) and its maintenance may be lifesaving for the allergic patients.
Performing a prospective study, we exactly documented effects and side effects during the induction phase of SIT using a purified aqueous yellow jacket venom preparation in 20 patients allergic to yellow jacket venom (clinical degree II-IV).
Indication for the therapy was defined individually for each patient and was based on a score incorporating the following criteria: a) clinical symptoms, b) in-vivo- and in-vitro testing, c) risk of re-sting.
SIT was started under inpatient conditions following a standardized 8 day protocol.
At the end of the induction phase all patients tolerated the maintenance dose of 100 µg of yellow jacket venom without complications even though all showed local side effects (threshold doses 0.01-10 µg, median value 0.2 µg).
40% of all patients showed subjective side effects (median value of threshold dose 30 µg, range 0.2-60 µg) and 30% showed objective side effects (median value of threshold dose 55 µg, range 20-80 µg); however, all side effects were clinically mild.
When objective systemic side effects were seen, the cumulative daily dose was 39-210 µg (median value 135 µg), exceeding 100 µg in 83% of patients.
Our prospective study confirmed that the chosen protocol for SIT is effective in inducing tolerance to the venom preparation.
However, using a purified aqueous yellow jacket preparation did not result in reduction of side effects.
A 76 year old patient with actinic reticuloid was treated with Cyclosporin A.
11 months after beginning the immunosuppressive therapy, he developed lymphoedema and livid nodular skin lesions of the right leg, which histologically showed Kaposi's sarcoma.
After stopping the Cyclosporin A and intralesional therapy with Interferon alpha, no regression of the Kaposi sarcoma could be seen.
The characteristics of Kaposi sarcoma arising during immunosuppressive therapy and the differences in incidence, risk groups and distribution pattern compared to the classic sporadic and the AIDS-related Kaposi sarcoma will be described.
The development of Kaposi sarcoma during immunosuppressive therapy for actinic reticuloid has not been previously described.
This analysis was undertaken to review the outcome and toxicity of postoperative adjuvant therapy for Stage II and III rectal cancer.
We reviewed 112 patients treated with radiotherapy (44 patients) and radiochemotherapy (68 patients) after potentially curative (R0) surgery for rectal cancer (UICC Stages II and III), between 1983 and 1994 at the University Clinic of Würzburg.
Median radiation dose was 56 Gy (range: 45 to 66 Gy).
Chemotherapy consisted of 4 to 6 courses of 5-fluorouracil (5-FU) (420 mg/m2/d) and leucovorin (200 mg/m2/d).
Median follow-up was 37 months.
The overall survival was 84% for patients with UICC Stage II and 45% for patients with UICC Stage III disease (p = 0.0045).
There were no statistically significant differences between patients treated with radiochemotherapy vs radiotherapy in terms of 5-year survival (63% after radiochemotherapy vs 53% after radiotherapy, p = 0.16), relapse-free survival (52% vs 50%) and locoregional control (69% vs 67%).
UICC Stage III disease was associated with high failure rates (40% pelvic recurrences and 53% distant metastases).
There was a statistically significant difference in terms of the incidence of distant metastases between the 2 treatment modalities for patients with Stage III disease (49% 5-year probability for developing distant metastases after radiochemotherapy vs 66% after radiotherapy, p = 0.047).
In a multivariate analysis, the addition of chemotherapy, lymph node stage and grading were independent prognostic factors for survival.
Severe late toxicity was documented in 5% of treated patients.
Prognosis of patients with UICC Stage III rectal cancer remains poor after "standard" surgery followed by postoperative adjuvant treatment (pelvic radiotherapy and bolus intravenous injection of 5-FU and leucovorin).
Major efforts should be made in order to improve prognosis for these patients, including optimization of surgical treatment and systemic treatment.
More effective multimodality treatment strategies should be investigated in prospective randomized trials.
Andy Warhol underwent dermabrasion in 1957 because of a nasal skin lesion, which is best diagnosed as a rhinophyma on the basis of the available biographical literature.
Throughout his creative life, the artist worked on different aspects of plastic surgery especially in the nasal area.
As one of the founders of Pop-Art, Warhol left essential marks on the modern society and influenced our standards of aesthetic shapes.
Objective: The clinical activity of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is not reliably reflected by laboratory measures.
Proteolytic enzymes involved in the cascade of joint destruction are potentially useful parameters to monitor the extent of joint inflammation in RA.
This study compares the validity of two classes of proteolytic enzymes, matrix metalloproteinases (MMP) and lysosomal cysteine proteinases (cathepsin B, H, and L) as well as their respective inhibitors to serve as parameters of RA disease activity.
A 47 year old male patient with Miller-Fisher-syndrome did not respond to treatment with plasmapheresis and intravenous high dose 7 S immune globulins.
Only cerebrospinal fluid pheresis, administered as final alternative, lead to definite improvement and cure.
Invasive selective coronary angiography as a clinical method is about 40 years old.
This article surveying this period, written by an R&D engineer, deals with four parts: first the situation before 1965 is touched upon.
For the time after 1965 the second and third parts describe the development of the procedure and of the technique with special reference to the work of Prof. Dr. K. Bachmann and to the facility, which in 1967 was designed together with him and further developed.
K. Bachmann had already taken up the method of invasive coronary angiography around 1965, which makes him one of the group of pioneering users who developed the fundamentals of the procedure and led coronary angiography to its self-evident use today.
The first clinical application of high resolution image intensifiers with the input screen produced from evaporated cesium iodide in 1971 appears as one of the highlights of the continuous improvements of the facility.
The fourth part of the article sketches the status of today and, considering the new methods using MRI, EBCT as well as CT, it predicts that the invasive coronary angiography will remain an indispensable method at least for the medium-term future.
Proton pump inhibitors (omeprazole, lansoprazole, and pantoprazole) have revolutionized the therapy of peptic disease of the upper gastrointestinal tract and reduced the indications for surgical intervention.
These substances inhibit the H+/K+-ATPase in the parietal cells with an acid suppressing potency that is much higher than that of H2-receptor-antagonists.
The first proton pump inhibitor, omeprazole, has been introduced ten years ago.
Since then, sufficient experience with this drug in children has accumulated.
Omeprazole is released for children aged one year or older.
A new formulation makes the drug applicable in tube fed patients.
The main indications for the use of omeprazole are endoscopically verified peptic esophagitis and gastric and duodenal ulcerations of different etiologies.
In the treatment of Helicobacter pylori-infection a sufficient acid suppression is essential for the efficacy of the antibiotics.
The recommended pediatric dose ranges between 0,7-1,4 mg/kg bodyweight and day.
However, some children with ulcerative esophagitis may need daily doses up to 3.5 mg/kg.
Healing of the esophageal mucosa should be monitored by endoscopy.
After remission, doses can often be reduced for maintenance therapy.
Side effects are rare and do not seem to increase with higher doses.
Possibly interactions with other medications, i.e.
antiepileptic drugs, may occur.
A long-term therapy lasting more than 6 months in a child should be monitored by an experienced pediatric gastroenterologist.
Nosocomial urinary tract infections (UTI) are frequent complications after transurethral prostatectomy.
The resection itself, postoperative catheterization and the prostate are possible causes of these infections.
In this prospective study we investigated the influence of bacterial prostatic colonization on the incidence of postoperative urinary tract infections and inflammatory complications.
In 78 patients we observed in 42 cases (53,8%) a bacterial prostatitis.
In 14 patients (17,9%) we found nosocomial UTI's and in 12 patients (15,4%) inflammatory complications.
The incidence of postoperative UTI's increase significantly in patients with positive prostate-cultures.
On the other hand we only found corresponding prostate- and postoperative urine-cultures in less than 50%.
The presented data are not sufficient to conclude the kind of relevance of bacterial prostatic colonization for postoperative UTI's in transurethral prostatectomy.
Under consideration of the significant increase of nosocomial UTI's in patients with positive prostate cultures a perioperative antibiotic prophylaxis seems to be required in general.
Apnea, bradycardia and oxygen desaturation in infants with very low birth weight are common findings in neonatal intensive care.
The prognostic significance of their intensity and frequency and the principles of treatment, however, are controversial.
The universal aim, in order to prevent traumatization of the lung, is to ventilate infants with very low birth weight for as short a time as possible.
Therefore drugs such as theophylline, aminophylline and doxapram and techniques such as nasal CPAP have been studied in our neonatal intensive care unit.
In these studies we developed a treatment algorithm.
In two clinically controlled studies performed successively we first proved that sodium acetate theophylline given intravenously has the same efficacy as aminophylline.
As aminophylline has more side effects, sodium acetate theophylline is preferable.
Bradycardia, apnea and desaturation were registered from the print-out of the monitoring system's trend analysis and in a polysomnographic study during steady-state conditions.
In a historical study we were able to prove that intravenous injection of aminophylline is superior to oral administration.
We demonstrated equal efficacy of doxapram and theophylline; however, doxapram reduced the rate of apnea significantly more during the first 3 days of treatment.
In a retrospective study we analyzed the efficacy of nasal CPAP as the third level of treatment.
The rate of bradycardia, apnea and desaturation was significantly reduced during CPAP and respiratory rate and oxygenation improved.
The algorithm developed established theophylline with 5 mg/ kg as bolus infusion over 20 min, followed by 3 mg/kg BID as the first line of treatment.
Only if a quick therapeutic response was desirable was doxapram the first drug of choice (indication >=4 bradycardias below 80/min, 4 desaturations below 80% or 2 apneas of >=20 s over 2 h).
After 48 h an additional second drug was added if we could still observe >=3 apneas, 15 bradycardias or 15 desaturations over this period.
Nasal CPAP was introduced as the third line of treatment.
With this treatment algorithm we were able to reduce the time on a respirator of infants with very low birth weight from 4.9 to 3.4 days (P<0.01).
An evaluation of similar treatment algorithms in multi-institutional studies is indicated.
Background: Associations between back pain, the quality of sleep and the quality of matresses have not yet been investigated systematically.
Methods: At check-out we asked 265 consecutive guests of a trade fair hotel about the subjective quality of sleep in the previous night.
Nine rooms had been equipped with new mattresses of three different qualities and prices, but this was kept blind to the hotel staff and the guests.
Sleep quality was assessed on an analog scale between 1 (very good) and 5 (very bad) and was analyzed in comparison to the remaining 8-year old mattresses of the hotel, but also with respect to social (e.g.
private vs. professional reason for the stay) as well as personal (e.g.
previous experience with low back and sleep complaints) characteristics of the guests.
Results: The three qualities of the mattresses correlated significantly and positively with the perceived quality of sleep, but the difference to the "old" mattresses was most pronounced for those guests who were staying overnight for professional reasons, or who frequently were suffering from low back pain or sleep disturbances.
Conclusion: At least for chronic sufferers from back pain and sleep problems, the association between sleep quality and quality of the mattress is significant.
Body oriented psychotherapy is used nowadays in in-patient and out-patient settings, individually or in groups, alone or combined with other methods.
These methods have special importance in patients whose body feeling is reduced, who are restricted in their emotions, or for those who are difficult to reach because of resistances of character.
Short examples are given as an introduction to the methods used often the most nowadays, reference is made to other procedures.
The connection of emotions to the vegetative and autonomic nervous system inter alia and the link between emotional and physical processes which is especially strong to the beginning of life and which combines with the specifically experienced form of interaction and has psychobiological consequences are mentioned as active factors.
In later development, the body and certain parts of the body acquire a symbolical meaning too, which is important for the therapy.
The relationship of body oriented procedures to verbal psychotherapy and especially to psychoanalysis shall also be discussed.
Approaches to empirical research are pointed out.
Paraneoplastic neurological syndromes are rare diseases that occur in relation to cancer.
Supporting the hypothesis of an autoimmune mechanism, specific antineuronal antibodies have sometimes been detected.
The current possibilities for treatment are limited.
A female patient, aged 57, suffering from a breast cancer, developed a severe paraneoplastic cerebellar syndrome and limbic encephalitis within a few weeks.
It is possible that the impressive partial remission that occurred during the ensuing 6 months was not due to therapy.
Although the patient was still bound to a wheelchair, discharge from hospital was possible because she was still able to perform daily tasks by herself.
A recurrence of the cerebellar symptoms with mild alterations of mental status occurred 2 months later but again showed a good remission.
The outcome in 163 patients treated for an abdominal aortic aneurysm in the department for vascular and thoracic surgery since its institution 5 years ago is investigated.
Some 142 patients underwent operative aneurysm repair; 21 (13%) were excluded from operation.
In 108 (66%) an elective procedure was performed, an emergency operation for rupture 34 times (21%).
In 16% of cases one or both renal arteries or the inferior mesenteric or the internal iliac artery were reimplanted.
For further analysis the patients were split in three groups: elective group 1, symptomatic group 2, ruptured group 3.
Significant differences were found in the aneurysmal diameter, distribution of gender (128 M, 14 F), renal artery involvement, or concomitant peripheral arteriosclerosis as well as for the risk factors tobacco smoking, hyperlipidemia, renal insufficiency, and the presence of multiple risk factors.
Group 1 had a significantly higher preoperative hospital stay than group 2; whereas the intensive care stay was significantly longer in group 3 than in the other two groups.
Sixty-four percent of patients had no, 11% had more than one complication.
Mortality was 0 in groups 1 and 2, but 35.3% in group 3.
The most frequent complication in groups 1 and 2 was pneumonia (13.9%) followed by cardiac complications (4.6%), and renal insufficiency (3.7%).
In group 3 respiratory insufficiency demonstrated the highest incidence (23.5%), followed by renal insufficiency (21%) and pneumonia (17.6%).
No patient of the nonoperated group suffered an aneurysm rupture; aneurysm diameters, except one, did not increase during the follow-up period.
Of the 130 operated and discharged patients 31 died; in no case was death related to the operative procedure.
No important complications were observed during the follow-up of 37.2 +/- 17.9 months.
Furthermore, the results are compared with those of the literature.
Based on their observations the authors conclude that this retrospective quality check was rather awkward and involved giving partly incomplete data for lack of a prospective evaluation.
Nevertheless, the results compared well with those in the literature and were satisfactory.
We report on a 32-year-old male patient with advanced acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), who had severe candidiasis of the gastrointestinal tract.
Treatment with fluconazole, 200 mg/day, was introduced.
After oral intake of fluconazole over 5 months itraconazole 200 mg/day was given for 1 month.
However, fungal infection still persisted.
The antifungal activity of fluconazole, itraconazole and ketoconazole against Candida albicans was evaluated by means of the microdilution test by determining the 90% inhibitory concentrations of each drugs.
A high minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) was detected for fluconazole (50 µg/ml) revealing fluconazole resistance.
The susceptibility to itraconazole was borderline (MIC 0.125 µg/ml) and that to ketoconazole was markedly lowered (MIC 0.25 µg/ml).
Plasma levels of itraconazole were also found to be lowered.
In HIV patients the gastrointestinal absorption of azole derivatives is often reduced.
Therefore, the clinical resistance of Candida albicans to itraconazole can be explained by reduced susceptibility after azole therapy and also by the decreased absorption of the drug in HIV patients.
Patients suffering from soft tissue sarcoma of the extremities may sometimes require vascular reconstruction to remove the tumor with adequate margins of clearance.
Besides this, recurrent lymph node metastases are often affixed to neighboring vessels.
MRI and angiography represent the adequate diagnostic procedures.
Vessel-invasive sarcoma can hardly be treated by surgical resection with curative intent alone.
If there is doubt about invasion of arteries and veins, the vessels should be resected and replaced by autologous vein graft.
Soft tissue coverage is of major importance, particularly if prosthetic grafts are used or the resection is within an area of irradiated tissue.
After radical resection and combined modality therapy, one can expect local recurrence rates similar to those without vessel invasion.
To achieve this goal, surgical oncologists, vascular surgeons and plastic surgeons must work together.
Today, amputation can hardly be justified even in vessel-invasive soft tissue tumors.
The study aimed to evaluate whether superimposed high-frequency jet ventilation (SHFJV) is a useful tool in intensive care medicine to ventilate patients with pulmonary insufficiency.
Surgery on the lacrimal system in 296 children was performed at the Münster University Eye Hospital from 1987 to 1992.
The dermatology clinic in Krefeld has treated a wide range of patients since its founding in 1845.
Nowadays the spectrum consists of allergology, occupational dermatology, phototherapy, dermatosurgery, phlebology and proctology as well as special clinics for andrology, sexually transmitted diseases and patients with HIV-infection.
Background: Dapiprazole hydrochloride is an alpha-1-adrenergic inhibitor that anticipates the mydriatic effect of phenylephrine in dilator muscle receptors in a competitive way.
The aim of this study was to determine for which indications for mydriasis pupil dilation by phenylephrine alone is sufficient and if the reversal by dapiprazole is convenient and the practical.
The Quality Assurance programmes of the social security insurance authorities are presented from the point of view of psychosomatic rehabilitation.
This presentation attempts to introduce aspects of both Quality Assurance and Quality Management into the field of medical rehabilitation.
The consequences of the programme for political order are emphasized.
The special features of the individual programme objectives are elaborated.
In addition, the importance of each of these objectives for psychosomatic rehabilitation is examined.
This field will inevitably have to adopt concepts of time and resource optimization.
For many years the multiple organ dysfunction syndrome has been on the top of medical articles about the intensive care patient.
While severity scores deal with the 1st ICU day physiology, the organ dysfunction systems aim to take in account the duration type and severity of physiologic disturbances during the ICU stay.
Most of the published systems have been created by a panel of experts, giving to each dysfunction a number of points, usually 1 to 4, according to the severity.
Only 2 systems are different: the MODS of Marshall et al.
and the Logistic Organ Dysfunction LOD system of Le Gall et al., both published recently (1995 and 1996).
They differ from the others because first they were created either from a literature review (MDOS) or from a logistic regression (LOD), and secondly, because neither takes into account the therapy.
Besides, the LOD system, when used on the 1st ICU day, has statistical qualities which are very promising.
The LOD system is now used each consecutive day on septic patients in an European multicenter study.
The relationsship between the growth of tumors and the expression of the protooncogen Bcl-2 could be shown in epithelial tumors.
A bcl-2 expression leads to a prolonged cell survival due to an inhibition of apoptosis.
The potential meaning of bcl-2 expression in mesenchymal tumors remains still unknown.
The fact, that the heterogenous group of osteosarkoma is not sufficiently characterized at present, suggested to investigate the bcl-2 expression in osteosarcoma.
Thus, immunohistochemistry was used to analyze 47 specimens of different osteosarcomas of 36 patients.
Sixteen cases (46 %) showed a strong expression of bcl-2 and 13 cases (35 %) were moderately positiv for bcl-2.
Seven cases (19 %) were negative for bcl-2.
The heterogenous, negative up to strong expression of bcl-2 yield clues, that the Bcl-2 controlled regulation of programmed cell death could be an important factor of cellular kinetics.
Additionally the cellular proliferationrate was determined with the monoklonal antibody MIB 1, directed against the Ki-67 epitop.
The data of bcl-2 expression and cellular proliferationrate lead to a classification correlating with the histological classification.
To verify the importance of apoptosis in the genesis of mesenchymal tumors and whether Bcl-2 may play an important role as a predictive factor for the prognosis of osteosarcoma, further investigations will be needed.
During a period of two weeks in hot dry midsummer 3 patients presented in our pediatric outpatient clinic after a bath in a small lake.
They had an extremely itching, elevated exanthema mainly on their legs.
The single efflorescence had a diameter of about 1-3 cm.
There were no signs of infection or fever.
Intussusception of the appendix vermiformis in adults is an uncommon event.
The combination of a mucinous cystadenoma with an intussuscepted appendix is extremely rare.
Clinical symptoms are nonspecific; in most cases the correct diagnosis is not made before surgical exploration.
With the radiologic and endoscopic presentation of a polypoid lesion of the caecum, a neoplasm is often considered.
Endoscopic appendectomy or disinvagination by enema have been described.
Thus the definitive therapy is surgery and depends on the histological diagnosis.
There are some case reports about excessive heat production in the absorbent canister when sevoflurane or enflurane are washed into a circle containing dried soda lime.
This observation was often made in the DRÄGER ISO 8 circle system with the gas inlet upstream of the soda lime canister with the gas-flow from bottom to top.
Abstract:  MR-imaging of the spinal column using Turbo-Spin-Echo-Sequences (TSE) often shows flow-void structures resembling intraspinal vessels.
Due to misinterpretation of those phenomenons invasive diagnostic procedures may be performed to diagnose an arteriovenous malformation (myelography, spinal angiography).
Purpose: To compare the effectiveness of spiral CT versus conventional CT in the preoperative assessment of metallic intraocular foreign bodies.
Surgery is still the primary therapeutic approach in treatment of tumors in the head and neck area, dating back to the early nineteenth century.
More than 150 years ago, hemimaxillectomies and mandibular resections as well as hemiglossectomies were already performed by leading surgeons.
The block principle we are now following dates back to Crile, who also established the principle of cervical lymph node dissection.
Ablative oncologic surgery has always been closely linked with plastic and reconstructive surgery, rendering radical surgical interventions possible without disfiguring patients.
The development of facial reconstructive surgery proceeded in stages, in the first instance as secondary reconstruction using tube pedicled flaps.
The change to the concept of primary reconstruction occurred via arterialized skin flaps and myocutaneous flaps to the widely accepted and performed free tissue transfer.
Free bone grafting, inaugurated earlier and still representing the majority of bone grafting, has been supplemented for certain reconstructive purposes by free vascularized bone transfer from various donor sites.
Although the five-year-survival rate of carcinoma of the oral cavity has remained unchanged in the past 30 years, distinctive improvements in tumor surgery can be recorded.
This is primarily based on improved diagnostics such as modern imaging techniques and the refinement of surgical techniques.
The DÖSAK has worked out distinctive guidelines for effective ablative oncologic surgery.
Surgical approaches offering wide exposure and carrying low morbidity play a decisive role in radical resections.
For this reason, midfacial degloving offers an essential improvement for the resection of midface tumors, especially from an aesthetic point of view.
Tumors situated deep behind the viscerocranium at the skull base can be clearly exposed either through a lateral approach following a temporary osteotomy of the mandibular ramus or a transmandibular, transmaxillar, or transfacial approach with minimal morbidity.
Concerning the concept of neck dissection, radical techniques are more and more abandoned in favor of a more conservative procedure.
Actual inquiries concerning present surgical procedures as to the surgical strategy in "No-neck" or marginal and segmental resection in mandibular adherent carcinomas demand scientific clarification.
Laser treatment of various skin changes has become common clinical practice in recent years.
Due to its physical properties, the CO2 laser is particularly well suited for cutting and ablating tissue.
The high absorption of its wavelength in water (=10600 nm) is responsible for its low penetration depth in biological tissue.
Shortening the exposure time minimizes thermal side effects, such as carbonization and coagulation.
This effect can be lessened with the SilkTouch scanner, since the focussed laser beam is moved over a defined area by rapidly rotating mirrors.
This enables a controlled and reliable removal of various dermal lesions.
Particularly well-suited for treatment hypertrophic scars, post-acne scarring, perioral and periorbital wrinkles, rhinophymas and benign neoplasms including verruca vulgaris.
Cosmetically favorable reepithelialization of the treated skin surfaces occurs within a very short time after treatment.
Periorbital resurfacing and correction of a rhinophyma are used as examples of dermal treatment with the CO2 laser and the SilkTouch scanner.
Acute spinal cord injury affects more than 3000 individuals per year with predominantly young people between 15 and 20 years of age being involved.
Analysis of the modern emergency management has revealed that the prognosis of acute spinal trauma depends decisively on the initial treatment at the accident site as well as good acute emergency care.
Therefore, there is the urgent need to brain the medical staff so that injuries are diagnosed correctly and appropriate treatment be performed.
The first hours after the accident are decisive, because injuries due to the primary and especially secondary trauma are difficult to correct later.
Besides the fate of the individual patient, the care provider has to be aware of the high economic impact caused by intensive care, long lasting rehabilitation, as well as post rehabilitative care.
Chronic or repeated stress can induce a damage of neurons, expecially in hippocampus, by which the degree of damage differs in various species.
Sapolski has reported that there is a correlation between hippocampal degeneration, disturbed feed-back reaction, and hypersecretion of glucocorticoids.
The aim of this study was to investigate if the signal transmission via glucocorticoid receptors (GR) in the brain of male wistar rats of two age groups (5-6 and 17-24 months, respectively) is changed in aging and which cytoplasmic factors/modulators participate in this process.
Introduction: The treatment of soft tissue defects of the foot and ankle region remains a challenge, because special anatomical and physiological properties have to be considered.
Patients and methods: The data of 52 patients, who were treated between 1994 and 1998, were analyzed.
48 % were posttraumatic defects and were located in the weight bearing zone in 37 %.
Results: Fifty-nine procedures were used, including skin transplantation in 16 patients, local flaps in 3 cases, regional flaps in 14 cases, and microvascular procedures in 17 cases.
Amputation was required in 4 patients.
The overall success rate was 92 %.
Complications occurred in 18 patients.
Conclusions: Using these data and evaluation of the actual literature lead to the development of an algorithm for the treatment of defects in this area.
The modern armamentarium of plastic surgery offers the possible different treatment modalities.
The conventional multichannel electroencephalogram is quite inconvenient for long-term monitoring in the operating theatre or intensive care unit.
Recording of the EEG would be easier if a small number of channels was sufficient.
Aiming at reduction of channels, leads from different regions of the scalp were analysed visually and with regard to their spectral content.
APC resistance was first discovered in 1993.
It is the most frequent cause of thrombophilia in Europe and North America.
In more than 90% of cases, the underlying cause of APC resistance is a single point mutation in the factor V gene.
Heterozygous patients have a between five- and ten-fold higher risk of developing venous thrombosis, while in homozygous patients the risk is increased up to between 50- and 100-fold.
Where there is a previous history of thrombosis, a careful investigation of the coagulation system, in particular a determination of the APC ratio, is recommended prior to surgery.
In patients with APC resistance, a body-weight-specific thrombosis prophylaxis with heparin is recommended.
Heterozygous patients only need anticoagulation when additional risk conditions are present, while homozygous patients with thromboembolic disease should be anticoagulated over a long period of time.
Primary varicosis of the saphenous system should be treated promptly by surgery to minimize the additional risk of thrombotic complications.
Pyomyositis is an acute bacterial infection with abscess formation in the skeletal muscles mostly due to Staphylococcus aureus.
The disease is found more often in males.
Since the patients symptoms and the clinical and laboratory findings are relatively unspecific, the clinical diagnosis of pyomyositis can present difficulties.
Furthermore, cases of pyomyositis are rare in non-tropical countries and some physicians may not be familiar with it.
If not diagnosed and treated properly, pyomyositis can lead to sepsis and death.
Although the pathogenesis of the disease has not yet been clarified, some predisposing factors of forensic interest are well known: (trivial) trauma or vigorous exercise of the affected skeletal muscles, small potentially "septic" foci in other tissues or internal organs and a preexisting immunodeficiency, e. g. in diabetes mellitus, intravenous drug abusers or individuals suffering from HIV.
Three cases of "non-tropical" pyomyositis with fatal outcome are presented and the literature on the subject is reviewed with special reference to epidemiological and etiological factors, taking forensic aspects, histomorphologic findings and the problems of post-mortem diagnosis of pyomyositis into consideration.
Aim of the study: The etiology of persistent crying during early infancy has been only insufficiently elucidated.
Based upon recent data from the "Munich Interdisciplinary Research and Intervention Program (MIRIP)", this paper shall discuss and challenge well known explanatory models.
In addition, novel approaches of intervention shall be presented.
Because tumour cell invasion is a three-dimensional process involving tumour cells as well as stromal cells, tumour invasion models should include equivalents of both compartments in a spatially defined organisation.
Aims: Evaluation of differentiation and invasive potential in relation to basement membrane (BM) formation of new human oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC) cell lines under the influence of fibromatosis fibroblasts in a 3D co-culture system (collagen type I/fibroblast-containing matrix).
Material and methods: OSCC cell lines were established and cultured on collagen type I matrix with and without the inclusion of fibro-/myofibroblasts derived from nodular palmar fibromatosis).
Evaluation of invasion was done by conventional H & E staining after paraffin embedding; immunohistochemistry was performed for cytokeratins (MNF 116), involucrin (Sy5), vimentin (V9), collagen type IV (CIV22), laminin (1-chain, 4C7), and Ki-67 (MIB1); and electron microscopy followed.
Results: The OSCC cell lines PE/CA-PJ15, PE/CA-PJ34, PE/CA-PJ41 were invasive exclusively on gels containing fibroblasts with stratification of the multilayerd OSCC cell coat and polarised expression of cytokeratin and involucrin.
There was no evidence for BM, either by immunohistochemistry or by electron microscopy, although OSCC are immunohistochemically positive for collagen type IV and laminin in the 2D cell culture.
There were no differences in proliferative activity of the gels with and without fibroblasts.
Conclusions: Carcinoma cell invasion depends on the presence of fibroblasts in the gel indicating the important role of tumor stromal fibro-/myofibroblasts during carcinomic invasion.
The absence of a BM does not, per se, imply an invasive tumour growth.
Moreover, stratification and terminanl differentiation of epithelial tumour cells occur independently of a structural BM.
Interfragmentary movement and size of the fracture gap influence fracture healing.
Limited movements promote callus formation and may result in increased mechanical stability.
Although larger movements still promote callus formation, the bony consolidation of the fracture is hampered.
Fracture healing is also hampered if the size of the fracture gap is too large.
A combination of large movement and large gap bears the risk of non-union.
Therefore, having in mind a minimally invasive surgical approach, one should strive for good reduction of the fracture ends and flexible yet stable osteosynthesis.
Dynamization of the fracture by enabling axial movement will close the fracture gap, stimulate tissue differentiation and possibly accelerate the healing process.
External mechanical stimulation, however, has not been shown to effectively enhance the healing process under flexible fixation or in load-bearing patients.
Although ketamine has been in clinical use for 3 decades, the neuropharmacological basis of its analgesic, anaesthetic, sympathomimetic, and psychotomimetic effects is still a subject of controversial discussion and intensive investigational efforts.
In recent years, however, new experimental approaches to its effects on the cellular and molecular level and the availability of pure ketamine enantiomers contributed substantially to the understanding of its complex neuropharmacology.
This article reviews the current knowledge of ketamine effects on ligand-operated and voltage-operated transmembrane ion channels, G-protein-coupled receptors, transmitter uptake, and the NO-cGMP system in neurons.
With regard to its potential clinical relevance and supposed relative role among the complex mechanisms involved in pain perception, analgesia, anaesthesia, and psychotomimesis, the contributions of recent experimental and clinical findings to the identification of major target sites of ketamine are summarised.
In contrast to the uncertainty surrounding the potential role of opioid receptors, there is now considerable evidence that NMDA antagonism is a central mechanism that contributes to the amnesic, analgesic, anaesthetic, and psychotomimetic as well as the neuroprotective actions of ketamine.
Moreover, the involvement of non-NMDA glutamate receptors, muscarinic and nicotinic cholinergic transmission, interactions with 5-HT receptors, and L-Type Ca2+ channels may account for some of its anaesthetic and neuroprotective properties.
There is undoubtedly a need for a safe disinfection method of optical instruments used by ENT specialists.
So far, a standard method that sufficiently covers the risk of infection for patients and medical staff alike while serving the need of practicability in daily routine has not been established.
Therefore, in the ENT departments of the hospitals of Mannheim, Kaiserslautern, and Tübingen, studies on the disinfection of rigid optical instruments without working channel were performed between February 1999 and May 1999.
Instruments were wiped either with an aldehyde or alcohol (ethanol 80%) and germs were detected by quantitative swab cultures.
As discussed in the article, disinfection with ethanol proved to be at least equally efficient if not better than disinfection with aldehyde.
Therefore, it fully serves the requirements of a safe method for disinfection optical instruments without working channels.
White piedra is a rare hair infection of man and certain animals, caused by the widespread Trichosporon fungi.
The infection is characterized clinically by whitish, soft and easily removable coating of the hair shafts; however, the shafts may be destroyed by the pathogens invading at localized points.
While all body hair may be affected, the pubic hair is most frequently affected.
This paper is the first report genital white piedra in a 34-year-old Central European man.
In all, 22 cases have been described world-wide in young men ranging in age from 20 to 40 years.
Only 2 men, aged 42 and 53 years, do not fall in this range.
Recently, a major African study disclosed this disease in women for the first time.
In moderate latitudes, however, this infection appears to occur almost exclusively in young men.
In open fractures the rate of infected non-union defects has in recent years decreased due to the increased primary application of external fixation.
In spite of this positive state of affairs the condition is still encountered often enough to warrant specific treatment strategies and techniques.
In the treatment of infected pseudarthroses the general principles of osteitis treatment are applied.
This includes radical excision of infected pseudarthrotic bone and of the diseased surrounding soft tissue, provides mechanical stability in the non-union area and requires effective local treatment of the infection in combination with systemic, target-specific and temporary well-defined antibiotic therapy as well as procedures to improve local circulation.
The incorporation of autogenous bone transplants in defects appears to depend on close contact between the transplant and the vascularized receiving site and on the quantity of the transplanted osseous material.
A promising alternative method of dealing with extensive bone defects is osteogenesis produced by callus distraction; therefore special attention is given to Ilizarov's ring fixation system.
Unstable scar formation demands local muscular flaps or microvascularized free flap transfer, which seems to be superior to other methods.
Aim of the study: Using phantom studies, a dedicated low-field MR system with 0.2 T and a whole-body MR-scanner with 1.0 T were compared.
Many different mechanisms contribute to the etiopathogenesis of the so-called diabetic foot syndrome.
Among chronic complications, the diabetic foot syndrome is one of the most frequent causes of hospitalization.
The relative risk of diabetic patients requiring an amputation is up to 45 times greater than in normal subjects.
Sensory neuropathy, ischemia, and infection are the principal pathogenetic factors in the diabetic foot syndrome.
In most cases, a painless trauma is the initial condition that leads to an ulcer.
In this article, an overview of the different causes, clinical manifestations, and treatment options for a multidisciplinary team are discussed.
Lung resection offers the best prospect of long-term survival in patients with nonmetastatic pulmonary neoplasia.
In view of the dismal prognosis of unresected bronchial cancer, surgical resection should be encouraged even in patients with reduced cardiopulmonary function.
Accurate estimation of the postoperative cardiopulmonary function is therefore desirable to avoid (a) refusal of potentially curative treatment and (b) severe postoperative disability.
The origins of postresection morbidity and mortality are multifactorial.
Thus, no single pulmonary function test or hemodynamic measurement can accurately and reliably predict postoperative cardiorespiratory complications.
Criteria of functional operability should be based on percent of predicted value, so that patient's age, sex, and height will be taken into consideration.
Exercise testing offers the advantage that both pulmonary and cardiac risk can be evaluated simultaneously.
The high predictive value of maximal oxygen uptake (VO2max) in assessing postoperative morbidity and mortality is established.
The calculation of predicted postoperative lung function (ppo) is of importance.
The postoperative values for the forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1-ppo), the transfer factor (TL,CO-ppo), and VO2max-ppo can be predicted by using the same formula.
Patients with nearly normal lung function (FEV1, TL,CO > 75 % predicted) and no concomitant cardiac disease can undergo lung resection right up to pneumonectomy without further diagnostic procedures.
In the others, FEV1-ppo and TL,CO-ppo should be estimated first by taking into account the number of segments to be resected.
Patients with values < 30 % predicted are usually regarded as being inoperable, whereas values > 40 % predicted qualify for resection without the need for further diagnostics.
VO2max < 10 ml/kg/min or < 40 % predicted are prohibitive for surgery.
If VO2max is > 20 ml/kg/min or > 75 % predicted, functional operability without limitation is given.
For those cases where diagnostic uncertainty still remains, FEV1-ppo, TL,CO-ppo, and VO2max-ppo can be calculated by means of quantitative lung scans.
Patients with either FEV1-ppo and TL,CO-ppo < 30 % predicted or VO2max-ppo < 8 ml/kg/min or < 35 % predicted are deemed inoperable.
The treatment of acute of Achilles tendon rupture experienced a dynamic development in the last ten years.
Decisive for this development was the application of MRI and above all the ultrasonography in the diagnostics of the pathological changes and injuries of tendons.
The question of ruptue morphology as well as different courses of healing could be now evaluated objectively.
These advances led consequently to new modalities in treatment concepts and rehabilitation protocols.
The decisive input for improvements of the outcome results and particularly the shortening of the rehabilitation period came with introduction of the early functional treatment in contrast to immobilizing plaster treatment.
In a prospective randomized study (1987-1989) at the Trauma Dept.
of the Hannover Medical School could show no statistical differences comparing functional non-operative with functional operative therapy with a special therapy boot (Variostabil/Adidas).
The crucial criteria for therapy selection results from the sonografically measured position of the tendon stumps in plantar flexion (20  °).
With complete adaptation of the tendons' ends surgical treatment does not achieve better results than non-operative functional treatment in term of tendon healing and functional outcome.
Regarding the current therapeutic standards each method has is advantages and disadvantages.
Both, the operative and non-operative functional treatment enable a stable tendon healing with a low risk of rerupture (1-2 %).
Meanwhile there is consensus for early functional aftertreatment of the operated Achilles' tendons.
There seems to be a trend towards non-operative functional treatment in cases of adaquate sonografical findings, or to minimal invasive surgical techniques.
Based on a case report, we offer brief guidelines on the perioperative management of patients with Sleep-Apnea-Syndrome (SAS) who present with a high incidence of a difficult airway and a high risk of respiratory depression during the perioperative period.
A 39 year old male patient with a body mass index of 34,22 kg/m2 and receiving continuous-positive-airway-pressure- (CPAP) therapy for known SAS was scheduled for elective plastic surgery.
After induction of anaesthesia and direct laryngoscopy no adequate airway could be established and the patient became hypoxic, hypercapnic and developed hypotension and bradycardia.
With the use of a laryngeal mask airway the patient was stabilized and did not show neurologic sequale after immediate awakening.
The following fiberoptic intubation of the awake patient, still showing tendency of upper airway obstruction, confirmed the difficult anatomical structures.
The subsequent general anesthesia was uneventful.
The patient received CPAP therapy and was monitored during the first postoperative night in the Intensive Care Unit.
He made an uneventful recovery.
He was advised to have regional anaesthesia or planned fiberoptic intubation, where possible, in the case of further anesthetic intervention.
SAS has major implications for the anaesthesiologist and whenever patients exhibiting the high risk factors (obesity, male sex, history of intense snoring, impaired daytime performance, nonrefreshing daytime naps) are presented for surgery this condition should be considered.
Elective surgery should be postponed until after adequate examination and treatment when necessary.
Patients with SAS should always be suspected of having cardiopulmonary dysfunctions such as hypertension, cardiac dysrhythmia or cor pulmonale.
It is most important to avoid sedative premedication, to initiate CPAP therapy preoperatively, to encourage regional anaesthesia if possible and to ensure close monitoring over the complete perioperative period.
Planned fiberoptic intubation, preferably with surgical personnel available for an emergency airway, is a safe method for the induction of anaesthesia.
Postoperatively, patients are at high risk from respiratory depression, even in the awake state.
Postoperative opioid analgesia, no matter what route, should only be given under close monitoring.
Independently of regional or general anaesthesia there is an increased risk of respiratory depression in the middle of the first postoperative week, suspected to be caused by the catching up on lost REM-sleep, due to shifts in the normal sleep pattern during the first postoperative days.
Life style measures (weight reduction and control, reduction of total fat calories to <30% of total calories, modification of fat intake to increased monounsaturated vegetable fat, increased intake of dietary fibers, increased physical activity, controlled stress relaxation) are the basis of longterm therapy of coronary heart disease.
For transformation to daily life both patient and doctor need motivation, information, patience, and realistic aimes.
For realization the 10 rules of medical information should be followed.
The patient must be informed that the "new lifestyle" is not punishing but means a new quality of life.
With respect to the most important metabolic syndrome with hyperinsulinemia due to insulin resistance, weight reduction is the most important measure for preventing complications of atherosclerosis.
The patient should use a diary for weight control and blood pressure selfmeasurement.
IOL implantation in childhood is still controversial.
Background: Increases in serum calcium are often detected by chance.
They warrant a prompt diagnostic work-up to identify the underlying cause.
In the present review we describe our experience with debridement in necrotizing pancreatitis, with particular emphasis on the indications for surgery and the outcome in patients with infected and sterile necrosis.
Within 7 years 64 patients with necrotizing pancreatitis underwent surgery with a median preoperative APACHE II score of 9.
The indications for surgery were either proven infection or persistence of symptoms.
Thirty-six patients were found to have infected necrosis, while 28 patients had sterile necrosis.
There was no significant difference between the two groups regarding pre- and postoperative parameters.
The surgical technique involved a blunt necrosectomy followed by closed packing with Penrose drains.
This technique produced the lowest reported mortality of 6.2 % with a reoperation rate of only 17 %, demonstrating that even with sterile necrosis surgical management can be carried out safely.
The incidence of postoperative myocardial infarction (MI) is proportional to the incidence of myocardial ischaemic episodes.
Therefore, the prevention of such episodes is of great clinical importance.
The absorption of large volumes of irrigation fluid is a major problem in transurethral prostatic surgery (TUR-P).
Various indicators have been tested to monitor fluid absorption with regard to continuous registration and sufficient accuracy.
The volumetric fluid balance is not suitable as a routine method because of its inaccuracy.
Easily accessible parameters are unspecific because of surgical bleeding (haematocrit [Hct]), or are interfered with by physiological counter-regulatory actions (serum sodium [Na] concentration).
In 1986 Hulten et al.
suggested adding 2% ethanol to the irrigation fluid as a marker and investigated it intermittently in the expired air with an alcohol-test appliance.
In a prospective clinical study of 17 patients undergoing TUR-P under spinal anaesthesia, expiratory concentrations of alcohol that was added to the irrigation fluid (2% ethanol in Purisole, Fresenius, Bad Homburg) were monitored.
Gas was continuously sampled from the nasopharynx through a nasal cannula and the ethanol concentration was measured using a modified diverting anaesthetic gas monitor (Normac, Datex, Helsinki) that allows continuous as well as early detection of the absorbed irrigation fluid with reliable accuracy for clinical use.
In addition, at intervals of 10 minutes we measured blood alcohol, endtidal alcohol (Alcotest 7110, Drauml;ger, Lübeck), haematocrit, serum Na concentration, and blood gases.
Sixty-eight measurements were obtained from the 17 patients.
As shown in other studies, serum Na (r2 = 0.68) and Hct (r2 = 0.39) correlated poorly with the irrigation fluid as determined by serum alcohol levels.
In contrast, the expiratory alcohol measurements with the alcotest 7110 (r2 = 0.93) and Normac devices (r2 = 0.85) were closely related.
Continuous monitoring of the expiratory alcohol concentration with a Normac monitor closely reflects blood alcohol concentrations, and may hence serve as a useful semiquantitative monitor of irrigation fluid absorption during TUR-P.
Between 1986 and 1996, 21 patients had a tibiocalcanear arthrodesis.
Indications for surgery were in all cases either osteomyelitis or avascular necrosis of the talus.
External stabilisation was used in 17 patients due to severe soft tissue damage or extensive infection of the talus, internal screw fixation was used in four patients.
There were eight complications in seven patients, one patient had a below the knee amputation.
The leg length discrepancies after resection of the talus was equalised in four cases with callus distraction using an Ilisarov ring fixator.
Follow up evaluation was available in 18 patients after an average of 38 months (12-86 mo.).
There were no infectious recurrenies during the follow up period and a solid fusion was achieved in all patients that were followed.
According to a modified Kitaoka score, results were excellent and good in 12 of the 18patients.
External stabilisation, especially the Ilisarov ring fixator is the primary method of treatment in cases with severe infection or soft tissue damage.
Intraoperative autotransfusion (MAT), preoperative autologous blood donation, and preoperative normovolaemic haemodilution are three different methods to avoid homologous blood transfusion during surgical procedures.
The controversial use of MAT via cell saver in tumour surgery as well as contamination of the operative field with urine illustrate the particular difficulties of autologous blood transfusion in connection with radical prostatectomy.
We investigated changes in the osmotic resistance of the retransfused red blood cells (RBC), bacterial contamination, changes in coagulation parameters, and the presence of tumour cells.
Orbital pseudotumor is a nonspecific inflammatory process of unknown etiology that can be divided histopathologically into three basic types: granulomatous, lymphoid, and sclerosing.
Between 1995 and 1998, 12 patients with pseudotumor orbitae were treated in the ENT Department of the University of Saarland.
Histopathological examination showed granulomatous type of pseudotumor in six, lymphoid in three, and sclerosing in three patients.
In seven cases the pseudotumor orbitae were medially located and in four cases laterally.
In one patient nearly all orbital structures were infiltrated.
A number of different mapping systems have been published for the lymph-node staging in lung cancer.
The use of a reproducible map is an essential prerequisite for correct determination of the TNM status and comparing the surgical results.
In order to evaluate the current status of lymph-node mapping and lymph-node dissection in Germany, we performed a mail survey involving 90 hospitals performing operations for lung cancer.
Responses were obtained from 61 (67.7 %) hospitals.
Currently, the majority of the departments (43 %) use the German staging system (according to the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Thorax-, Herz- und Gefäßchirurgie/Pneumologie), 23 % lymph-node mapping according to Naruke, and 25 % an individual description of the resected lymph nodes.
The number of resected lymph nodes is reported in 75 % of the departments, the quotient of involved/not involved lymph nodes in 33 %.
Mediastinal lymph-node sampling guided by the intraoperative aspect of lymph nodes is performed in 59 % of the departments.
A systematic mediastinal "en-bloc" resection is accomplished in 41 %.
The results of this survey represent the current status of lymph-node mapping and lymphadenectomy in lung cancer in Germany and might be useful for the development of a uniform staging system.
In a 4-year period two right-sided empyemas occurred following a total of 39 pneumonectomies for lung cancer.
In another case pneumonectomy was performed for left-sided lung cancer with concomitant empyema as an emergency procedure in a patient referred from an outside hospital.
Empyema was treated with repeated thoracoscopic debridements and intermittent lavage with polyvinylpyrrolidine-iodine solution and streptocinase/streptodornase.
Three to seven thoracoscopies were required to sterilize the pleural cavity.
After a median follow-up of 14 months all three patients are well and without any evidence of infection.
VATS is suitable for definitive treatment of postpneumonectomy empyema and is associated with excellent functional and cosmetic results.
Injuries to the spine and the spinal cord are an important problem.
In the present paper the application of external transpedicular fixation of the spinal column for surgical treatment of patients in the acute phase of spinal cord injuries is described.
The results of treatment obtained in 54 patients in the acute phase are presented.
Decompression of the spinal cord can be accomplished by way of a dorsal approach.
In this way it is possible to remove the compressing factor in stages.
Positive results were achieved in the late phase in 84.22% of patients with acute spinal and spinal cord injuries.
Objectives: Children treated for acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) or non-hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) show retarded growth.
The question arose as to whether proportionate catch-up growth follows.
Background: The fundus autofluorescence imaging technique has been modified allowing improved image resolution (768 x 572 pixel).
We present results of fundus autofluorescence studies using this technique.
Certain intra-articular fractures of the knee can be managed by arthroscopically assisted reduction and  fixation.
The known benefits of arthroscopy include better visualization of the entire joint, limited dissection, and thorough irrigation.
The purpose of this paper is to present our experience with arthroscopically assisted reduction and fixation of certain intra-articular fractures of the knee.
From May 1995 to November 1997, 34 patients with intra-articular fractures of the knee were treated by arthroscopic reduction and fixation.
We treated 11 patients with tibial plateau fracture type I, II and III (according to J. Schatzker classification), 20 patients with avulsion fracture of the tibial insertion of the anterior cruciate ligament (intercondylar eminence) type II, III and IV (according to Meyers, McKeever and Zariczny classification), two patients with completely dislocated osteochondral flake fractures of the femoral condyle, and one patient with a minimally displaced fracture of the patella.
Postoperatively they were all allowed passive motion exercises.
Patients with avulsion fractures of the ACL and the patient with fracture of the patella were allowed immediate weight bearing, while patients with tibial plateau fractures and osteochondral fractures were allowed weight bearing only after 12 weeks.
Results: Of the 11 tibial plateau fractures, 8 were anatomically reduced, and in 2 the dislocation was less than 2 mm.
No further dislocation of the fragment followed.
All patients but one reported stable knees and they all had a full range of motion at follow-up.
Of the 20 patients with avulsion fracture of the anterior cruciate ligament, 19 were anatomically reduced.
Except in one patient, functional results were excellent (KT1000 was 1.3 mm, average loss of flexion was 2.5 °, loss of extension was 1.3 °).
In two cases of osteochondral fractures of the femoral condyle, reduction was anatomical.
The fractures healed, the patients were free of pain and had full ROM at the follow-up.
The fracture of the patella healed in 4 weeks with full ROM of the knee.
There was one case of aseptic synovitis and no other major complications.
Conclusions: Arthroscopic reduction and fixation are technically possible in certain types of intra-articular fractures of the knee.
Provided indications are good, results of arthroscopic treatment are better than in classical surgical treatment through arthrotomy.
There is less postoperative morbidity, and hospitalization and total rehabilitation times are shorter.
Some technical hints are presented.
A healthy 38-year-old woman suffered a sudden cardiac arrest 2 days after a vaginal hysterectomy.
Although standard cardiac life support (CPR) was instituted immediately after the event, it was not possible to re-establish a spontaneous circulation for about 40 min.
Systemic intravenous thrombolytic therapy with slow injection of 1.5 million IU urokinase was performed as a final life-maintaining measure because of the high probability that the underlying cause was a pulmonary embolus; 10 min later (after 60 min of ongoing CPR) the patient regained a stable circulation.
She survived without neurological deficit in spite of the long duration of CPR.
In 348 patients with an initial diagnosis of rectal carcinoma operated on between 1985 and 1994 we investigated the quality of lymph node dissection, its influence on the perioperative risk and tumor staging.
The same histopathological work-up was carried out in all cases.
Whether resections or extirpations were performed, the number of dissected lymph nodes increased from 5.3 and (1985/1986) to 16.7 and 17.3 (1991/1992) and to 15.8 and 17.3 (1993/1994) respectively.
Neither the type of operation nor the surgeon's experience had a significant influence on the number of lymph nodes dissected.
The increase in the number of lymph nodes dissected had no negative effect on the length of the operation, the amount of blood infused during the operation or the perioperative risk.
We found a significant correlation between the number of lymph nodes dissected and the number of lymph node metastases (P = 0.02) and between an increase in UICC stage III (P = 0.005) and pN2 tumors (P = 0.000) and an increase in the number of lymph nodes dissected.
Central lymph node dissection by high ligation of the inferior mesenteric artery did not increase the perioperative risk in spite of the fact that in recent years we have observed more patients with multiple diseases.
With the institution of the Protection against infection Act, case definitions will be officially introduced for the routine transmission of notifiable infectious diseases from local health departments to state and national health institutions in Germany for the first time.
Case definitions link the disease entity with a defined description of the disease.
The abstraction thereby required leads to the creation of nosological entities.
The case definitions, which were developed by the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) according to the Protection against infection Act, enable the local health departments to assess and categorise reported cases, deaths and laboratory reports of pathogens according to uniform criteria prior to transmission to the RKI via the state health institutions.The quality of surveillance data will be significantly improved, as each reported case/infection will fulfil defined criteria, thereby enabling unclear cases/diagnoses to be separated from those that are confirmed.
Endosseous osseointegrated implants have become an integral part of the treatment scheme for the prosthetic reconstruction and rehabilitation of masticatory function following scientific studies of the reactions between implant and soft and hard tissues.
Furthermore, implants offer good chances for prosthetic rehabilitation in the insufficient bone site, if the extremely atrophic jaw is to be reconstructed by grafting procedures with avascular and vascular grafts, by guided bone regeneration, by distraction osteogenesis, by bone substitutes and in the future by osteoinductive proteins in order to prepare the conditions for implant insertion.
Those reconstruction procedures combined with implants become often necessary, if  complicated hard and soft tissue defects of the skull have to be reconstructed to create the prerequisites for the stabilisation of epitheses or to insert implant-supported devices.
A 58-year-old woman was initially externally diagnosed in 1983 with a presacral mass, which was subsequently treated as an abcess.
Thereafter, the patient experienced recurrent perianal fistulas.
Further diagnostic studies revealed a cystic tumor, considered to be an epidermoid cyst, which was located in the inferior pelvis and was consequently removed.
Histologically, cystic scar tissue was found with a highly differentiated adenocarcinoma which measured 4 cm.
Later on, the patient again experienced perianal fistulas originating from a renewed presacral mass.
As a result, an abdominal-perianal rectum extirpation and a partial resection of the sacrum with placement of a descendostomy were done.
Histologically, adenocarcinoma tissue was found at the base of a tail-gut cyst.
One year following her operation, the patient is free from any complaints and relapses.
The tail-gut cyst is a very rare entity which arises from the inadequate involution of the tail-gut during embryonal development.
A malignant transformation occurs in 10 % of the cases.
In the case of recurrent perianal fistulas and cystic masses between the rectum and os sacrum or os coccygeum, a tail-gut cyst should be taken into consideration, the goal being its complete removal.
The German Social Law has required quality assurance (QA) procedures since 1989.
The measures must be suitable to allow "comparing investigations".
In 1992 the German Society of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine published recommendations for QA in anaesthesia: most problems during an anaesthetic should be documented in a standardised manner, and thus, a list of 63 pitfalls, events, and complications (PECs) and five degrees of severity were defined.
The goal of this study was to determine the frequency of PECs in anaesthesia and to correlate PECs with procedures and preoperative health status.
Using the diary method, the correlation between daily mood and everyday activities is analyzed.
Positive and negative affect were used as indicator of daily mood.
Duration of social activities and resting during the day were used as indicator of daily activities.
A total of 55 elderly persons kept a activity and mood diary for at least 50 days.
The data were analyzed interindividually (using regression analyses) and intraindividually (using time series analyses).
While positive affect and duration of social activities correlate positively in both inter- and intraindividual perspective, there is a relationship between negative affect and duration of rest only in interindividual perspective.
Theoretical and practical implications of the results are discussed.
Purpose: Regional hyperthermia in combination with chemotherapy or/and radiotherapy is a promising treatment concept for locally advanced, deep-seated tumors.
The purpose of the project is the optimization of the therapy using non-invasive, three-dimensional imaging of tissue changes or of the temperature distribution during regional hyperthermia.
The purpose of the Transfusion Law, which came into force on 7 July 1998, is to ensure the supply with safe blood products, to reinforce the confidence in the blood transfusion system, and to support self sufficiency with blood and plasma.
In order to reach this goal, the law regulates the essential reqirements for the adequate collection of blood and blood constituents, as well for safe usage of blood products.
Moreover it lays down rules for look-back procedures, prescribes the collection of data on the epidemiology in donor populations, creates a legal basis for the advisory group 'Arbeitskreis Blut', and fosters the self sufficiency with blood and plasma by several prescriptions.
In the last decades back pain has reached dramatic proportions in industrialized countries.
Disorders of the back are nowadays the leading cause of direct and indirect health care costs.
Accurate prevalence estimates are needed to serve as a basis for health care evaluations.
A review of epidemiologic studies in the general population reveals that back pain has reached a prevalence of 40 % for current pain.
7 to 18 % are "frequently", "often", "daily" or "constantly" affected.
75 % of the adult population suffers from back pain during the last year.
80 to 90 % of the adult population in industrialized countries experience back pain ever.
Gender specific differences are only present in severe, chronic forms which are more often experienced by women.
Back pain has a prevalence maximum at 50 to 64 years.
Older persons display lower prevalence estimates.
The prevalence maximum in men is one decade earlier than in women.
There are several potential explanations for this prevalence pattern that are discussed in the article.
Back pain can be classified by location, temporal characteristics, pain intensity and pain history.
Currently, for none of these dimensions generally accepted, uniformly employed and validated definitions are available.
In most of the industrialized countries back pain is one of the most expensive symptoms.
75-90 % of the direct and indirect health care costs were caused by those 5-10 % of patients who are disabled.
As predictors of back pain a history of back pain and job satisfaction play by far a more important role than the extensively studied mechanical factors.
For a first episode of back pain the prognosis is favorable.
If the pain persist for more than three months the prognosis is unfavorable.
After six months of absenteeism because of back pain more than half of the afflicted never return to work.
Rarely back pain is present as a single symptom.
In more than 80 % back pain is associated with pain in at least one joint.
It remains to be studied if back pain may be viewed as an entity or as part of a more complex pain syndrome.
Chronic low back pain can be considered to be one of the most frequently treated and most costly diseases in modern industrial societies.
Dysfunctions and imbalances of the spine-supporting muscles increase the risk of low back pain.
Consequently preventive treatment and rehabilitation have to aim at preserving and restoring the full capacity of the spine-supporting muscles as well as training coordination and spine-friendly behaviour.
In addition to various measures of pain therapy, physiotherapeutic treatment including neuro-physiotherapy, physical treatment (eg electrotherapy), balneotherapy and supportive behavioural training, medical rehabilitation therapy (MRT) ranks among the most effective ways of treating low back pain.
MRT applies guidelines and methods of exercise methodology within medically indicated programmes of preventive treatment and rehabilitation.
Various objectives of MRT are outlined with special regard to the stages of MRT treatment, emphasizing positive adaptation of the neuro-muscular system in the course of rehabilitation.
Physicians are responsible for MRT diagnosis and control.
Taking into account the base disorder and the progress of therapy physiotherapists and the physicians in charge determine MRT objectives and treatment strategies.
A 39-year-old female patient presented with an intense allergic reaction and shock after ingesting sunflower seeds and simultaneously acetylsalicylic acid (ASA).
Skin tests and CAP specific.
IgE demonstrated an IgE-mediated sensibilization to sunflower seeds.
When sunflower seeds were eaten alone, only discrete paresthesias of the oral mucosa occurred.
Surprisingly, an oral challenge with ASA was well tolerated.
The supplementary centribution of ASA to the allergic reaction was done-dependent.
The quantity of the allergen also modified the intensity of the symptoms.
This surprising effect of ASA may be attributed to increased gastric resorption of the allergens.
During the course of this reaction, eosinophil-cationic-protein was released.
Axillary lymph node dissection for node sampling is one of the most important staging procedures when mammary carcinoma is treated surgically.
Periprosthetic femoral fractures present the problem of fracture treatment and prosthetic stability.
Various treatment options are recommended for managing these fractures.
We treated 51 patients with 54 periprosthetic fractures between 1985 and 1995.
Of these, 42 (78 %) fractures were treated with a plate, eight (14 %), with a revision prosthesis, two (4 %), with retrograde nailing, and two (4 %), conservatively due to poor medical condition.
The choice of fracture management was dependent on the type and location of the fracture and on the stability of the prosthesis.
A total of 50 fractures healed primarily.
Complications included three cases of plate loosening, one further fracture, one deep infection, one broken bolt and one varus deformity.
Four patients died in the postoperative period, an additional 19 were dead at the time of the evaluation.
Fractures with a stable implant can be treated with plate fixation.
Cases of a loose implant require revision.
Distal fractures are stabilized with a plate or with a retrograde nail.
A young patient who underwent renewed aortic valve replacement after already open blasting of the aortic valve and following valve replacement with enlargement of the ascending thoracic aorty by using a pericardium patch had taken place is reported.
In the area of this enlargement by the pericardium patch, the development of an aneurysm was seen and was resected in the same setting without any difficulties.
The particular items with special regard to the postoperative course are delineated in the following report.
The situation of oncological surgery in Germany was evaluated by sending a questionnaire in January 1998 to 1979 registered surgical clinics.
A total of 938 responded and stated that they are involved in that field.
In 72 % of the departments oncological surgery adds up to 10-30 % of their overall work.
The proportion of oncological surgery correlated to hospital size and is highest in university clinics.
Colorectal surgery is 93 % and is the leading topographical field in oncological surgery.
73 % of the hospitals regularly perform gastric tumor surgery.
The proportion of hospitals with breast surgery is surprisingly high (45 %).
Many hospitals (54.6 %) report neoadjuvant treatment regimens.
Together with adjuvant therapy this rate amounts to 85.2 %.
The diagnostic spectrum of the hospitals involved in the inquiry is statisfactory.
However, the modern possibilities of network and telecommunication are not sufficiently used.
A second opinion is required predominantly in their own department or clinic, but not between centers.
The surgeon's position concerning the speciality "surgical oncology" is ambivalent: only 35.3 % of the department chiefs support this speciality - and over 90 % of the departments reject the structural independence of "surgical oncology" from "visceral surgery".
Cryosurgery is a widely accepted modality for the treatment of capillary hemangiomas of the newborn.
However, no studies clearly supporting its effectivity are available.
A considerable number of patients with cardiovascular diseases suffer from advanced heart failure.
Actuarial 6-12 month survival of such patients is reduced to 50-75%.
Since introduction of triple immunosuppression including cyclosporine, azathioprine and corticosteroids heart transplantation has been established as treatment of choice for patients with advanced heart failure refractory to medical treatment.
However, the increasing imbalance between demand and supply of suitable donor organs limits the number of patients for this therapeutic option and requires a more restrictive listing of patients for heart transplantation.
During the last few years promising new conservativ and alternativ surgical therapies have been developed.
The conservativ medical therapy was improved by application of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and anticongestive betablockers.
Alternativ surgical therapies of advanced heart failure include high risk bypass surgery, high risk valve surgery, mechanical assist devices, implantable cardioverter-defibrillators, partial left ventriculectomy, cardiomyoplasty and multisite-pacing.
They serve as bridge to transplantation or medium- and long-term alternatives to heart transplantation.
The therapeutic success is determined by adequate selection of patients for the respective therapy.
This requires the implementation of risk scores on the basis of national and international registries of patients with advanced heart failure.
Motion analysis of the cervical spine is a sensitive tool in the fields of preventive and clinical biomechanics of whiplash.
In the field of preventive biomechanics motion analysis contributes to validation and optimisation of dummy based crash test experiments and simulations.
In the clinical field motion analysis up to now is of restricted value.
Data exist about restrictions and pathologies of movement and motion of the cervical spine, coordinative disturbances, postural control, TMJ-function and oculomotor disturbances after whiplash.
The standardisation of technical and clinical set-ups is necessary to establish a well proven biomechnical model of whiplash and whiplash related biomechanical dysfunction.
Without this model the value of motion analysis for clinical use will be restricted due to lack of comparable data on sensitivity and specificity although motion analysis of the cervical spine is neither cost- nor time consuming and free of adverse effects.
Within a prospective series of 28 patients (14 m/ 14 f) with a follow-up to six weeks we were lucky to describe numerically two different types of reaction to low energy (v < 20 km/h) rear end collision: Type I with disturbances in complex movements only, Type II with overall restriction of movement.
Control of angular velocity during cyclic movements of the head was disturbed by oscillations of higher frequency in all patients.
Recovery from whiplash within 6 weeks could be monitored.
Diagnosis of parasomnias in the sleep laboratory is difficult since the nocturnal behavior reported by the patients often does not show up in the laboratory.
To test the efficacy of sleep deprivation as a tool to provoke somnambulism we investigated ten patients (three women and seven men, mean age 27 +/- 3.4) with somnambulism.
Their standard polysomnographies and videomonitored nocturnal behavior was compared to that of sex- and age-matched controls and to polysomnography and behavior after sleep deprivation.
Patients with parasomnias and controls did not show significant differences in sleep parameters with the exception of longer arousal duration in controls, which was nonsignificant.
In magnetic resonance tomography, patients with parasomnias did not reveal abnormality of the brain that might explain release of nocturnal behavior.
Sleep deprivation led to significantly reduced number of arousals, reduced arousal index, significantly prolonged arousal duration and more stage shifts from all sleep stages (nonsignificant).
Complex behavior during sleep increased under sleep deprivation, whereas sleepwalking did not increase.
The majority of complex behavior during sleep is triggered by stage shifts and not by arousal in the sense of the arousal definition of the American Sleep Disorder Society.
Complex behavior in sleep is stereotypical and nonviolent.
Its complexity seems to depend on the duration and intensity of arousals.
Sleep deprivation can be recommended as an efficacious method of increasing complex behavior in sleep, which is a preliminary stage of sleepwalking.
Concerning the underlying pathology it seems to be important to register the quality and duration of stimuli that trigger arousals instead of focusing the number of arousals alone.
Introduction: In order to investigate whether operative technique determines the 5-year recurrence and survival rates, we analysed the results obtained by two surgical departments using two different operative techniques.
Department A: Removal of the tumour and a number of lymph nodes; department B: En-bloc resection in accordance with the requirements of standardised tumour surgery.
Patients and methods: The surgical results obtained with all patients with colorectal carcinoma operated on between 1984 and 1988 (department A: 152 colon and 53 rectal carcinomas; department B: 124 colon and 177 rectal carcinomas).
Results: The local recurrence rate achieved by department A was signicantly higher (colon carcinoma: department A 25 %; department B 10 %; rectal carcinoma: department A 54 %; department B 16 %).
The 5-year survival rate for colon carcinoma was 65 % in department A, and 66 % in department B, the corresponding figures for rectal carcinoma being 49 % and 72 %, respectively.
Conclusion: The results indicate that carcinoma of the colorectum should be operated on only at an institution that complies with the standards required for surgery of colorectal carcinoma.
Definition of the problem: Ethics consultation is one of the most important ways in which clinical ethicists can support both health-care providers and patients and their relatives in coping with ethical and existential challenges.
The practice of ethics consultation, as performed at the Freiburg University Hospital is described and illustrated by a case report about the problem of treatment termination.
The range of subject matters that come up in ethics consultations is analyzed.
A research program in clinical ethics is summarized that has been undertaken to pave the way for a specific and interdisciplinary analysis of needs; from there on, the investigation aims at further developing clinical ethics support services.
Suggestions for criteria of competence for ethics consultants are formulated on the basis of both the author's and international work.
Finally, the issues of structural conditions for establishing clinical ethics in the German-speaking world are raised and the long-term prospect of ethics consultation as an instrument for learning and teaching ethics in the health-care system is highlighted.
Objectives Bridging of an extensive bone defect with a long stem revision prosthesis anchored in the diaphysis to restore a pain free function of the limb.
A total of 205 patients suffering from stage I and stage II melanoma were investigated with reference to psychosocial stress, social support and attitude to offers of psychotherapeutic support.
Additional counselling by their dermatologist was considered helpful by 59% of the patients, and interviews with a psychotherapist, by 20%.
Patients who where more anxious about a progression of the cancer and thought they had not been given sufficient information about their illness preferred to seek help from the dermatologist.
Patients who appreciated additional counselling by a psychotherapist were usually those with a poorer prognosis for their melanoma and those on whom psychosocial distress weighed especially heavily and who had less social support.
The original structure of the synovial membrane is completely destroyed in the rheumatoid synovium and is characterized by mononuclear cell infiltration, synoviocyte proliferation, neo-vascularization, and deposition of extracellular matrix proteins.
Adhesion molecules play an important role in the development of these pathologic changes.
In this review we discuss the role of the adhesion receptors of the selectin, integrin and immunglobulin families and of the CD44 molecule in the cell-cell and cell-matrix interaction in the pathogenesis of the inflammatory changes in rheumatoid arthritis.
During the last five years several authors have reported largely satisfactory results, using the steroid intravenous anaesthetic eltanolone (pregnanolone) for induction of anaesthesia after administering a bolus dose.
Until now, however, no investigations have been undertaken, dealing with the infusion pharmacokinetics of eltanolone after arterial blood sampling and using slow induction to quantify the concentration-effect relationship.
Secondary objectives were to assess the haemodynamic and respiratory effects.
Background: Intraoperative measurements of local intracapillary hemoglobin oxygenation of the human cochlea via the round window membrane have been shown to be possible using the Erlangen microlight-guided spectrophotometer.
The aim of the present study was to develop a new microlight guide suitable for measurements in the round window niche and to evaluate electrophysiologically the possible impact of the procedure on the cochlea.
High-dose UVA1 therapy is an effective treatment of patients with acute atopic dermatitis.
However, some patients do not respond well to this new therapy.
We attempted to further characterize the non-responder population in a retrospective study.
Two closely matched groups of responders (n=20) and non-responders (n=20) were compared.
No significant differences were observed between both groups with respect to the following parameters: skin type, minimal erythema dose, single and cumulative doses of UVA1, and peripheral blood eosinophils.
However, non-responders were characterized by a highly elevated atopic score, and by high levels of total IgE and of specific IgE.
Furthermore, colonization of the skin with Staphylococcus aureus occured at higher densities, and intestinal growth of Candida albicans was more frequently observed.
These data indicate that high-dose UVA1 irradiation is not effective in all patients suffering from atopic dermatitis.
We conclude that non-responders with complicating infections might benefit from the combination of high-dose UVA1 therapy and antibiotic or antimycotic treatment.
Introduction: Many causes are given as  the main reason for inadequate pain therapy.
The objective of our study was to demonstrate the current position of doctors in general practice all over Austria who prescribe prescriptions.
We report a woman with erythema palmare hereditarium, an anomaly not documented so far in the German literature.
It is characterized by a bright erythema of the palms, usually persistent since birth.
It is transmitted in an autosomal-recessive mode and has a benign course.
In our patient it was possible to trace the palmar erythema over three generations.
The decline of STD in the region of Rostock, Germany, since 1945 is explained by a decreasing incidence of gonorrhoea and trichomoniasis.
On the other hand chlamydial and candidal infections have increased.
The rate of chlamydia infections was about 45% in our venerological patients, as common as gonorrhea used to be.
Genital candidal infections were to be found in 23%.
Mycoplasmas were identified in 15%, usually combined with other pathogens except in some cases of vaginitis.
The role of radiotherapy in the treatment of Hodgkin's disease and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma has changed considerably in the last few decades.
Clinical observation of mainly unicentric pathogenesis with continuous expansion and subclinical involvement of adjoining regions of lymph nodes has resulted in the introduction of a large-field technique with total nodal irradiation (TNI) or total lymphatic irradiation (TLI).
The introduction of polychemotherapy has led to further improvement in the cure rate and in considerations concerning using both methods and adapting them to the stage and risk.
Today the combination of radiation and chemotherapy leads to a reduction in the amount of radiation required in the affected regions (involved field irradiation = IFI).
The German Society of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery was founded by Martin Waßmund in 1951.
One of the main reasons was the need for scientific representation in the council at a medical convention.
The Society, originally composed of 52 members, was first called "The German Society of Maxillofacial Surgery".
In 1972, it extended its title to include the term "oral" ("Mund") and currently comprises 620 members.
A scientific conference is held annually on a specific topic.
The lectures given there have been published since 1954 in "Fortschritte der Kiefer- und Gesichts-Chirurgie" (Progress in Maxillofacial Surgery) by Thieme Verlag; since 1997, they have appeared as a Springer-Verlag supplement.
Topics of choice are published in "Mund,- Kiefer- und Gesichtschirurgie" ("Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery"), originally by Hanser in Munich and now by Springer-Verlag in Heidelberg.
In this manner, it was possible to completely document the scientific activities and progress in this specialty.
Each year since 1957, a prize named after M. Waßmund, has been given for outstanding scientific accomplishment.
The presidents, convention locations, topics, and prizewinners are listed in a table.
Since the founding of the Society of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, close cooperation has existed with the National Association of German Oral and Maxillary-Facial Surgeons (Bundesverband der Deutschen Ärzte für Mund-Kiefer-Gesichts-Chirurgie).
In order to intertwine scientific and political interests, a fusion of these two organizations is planned for the year 2000.
The hepatorenal syndrome is defined as the development of renal failure in patients with severe liver disease in the absence of any other identifiable cause of renal functional impairment.
The pathogenesis of this obviously functional renal failure is complex and not completely understood.
Of importance seems to be a peripheral and systemic vasodilatation with redistribution of blood volume.
Nitric oxide seems to play a major role as a possible primary mediator.
As a consequence changes in several different pathophysiological mechanisms (sympathetic nervous system, renin-angiotensin system, vasopressin, endothelin, prostanoids, natriuretic peptides) lead to a functional renal impairment which is characterized by renal cortical vasoconstriction.
Supportive treatment and intensive monitoring of the cardiovascular circulation is the main goal in the care of these patients.
The mortality is still high exceeding 90%.
Renal extracorporeal support should be initiated using a continuous method when recovery of liver function is expected (acute liver failure, waiting for liver transplantation).
The only effective and permanent treatment is orthotopic liver transplantation.
A 16 year old patient with the typical clinical signs of Albright's hereditary dystrophia developed series of epileptic seizures with loss of consciousness, tonic muscle contractions and bite of the tongue.
After termination of the seizures there was coma without focal neurological signs.
CT scan revealed diffuse brain edema.
Electroencephalographic studies showed generalized slowing.
In laboratory tests the only abnormalities were marked hypocalcemia (1.15 mmol/l) and hyperphosphatemia.
Blood parathyroid hormone (PTH) was elevated.
PTH-Test confirmed the diagnosis of pseudohypoparathyroidism.
The patient was treated with calcium and 1,25-dihydroxy-cholecalciferol.
After few days the severe encephalopathy, CT and electroencephalographic changes were completely reversible.
Hereditary disturbances of the parathyroid hormone metabolism are rare diseases.
Hypocalcemia must be included into the differential diagnosis of seizures and brain edema to avoid invasive diagnostic and irrational treatment.
An adequate increase of uterine blood flow throughout gestation is essential for uterine, placental and fetal growth.
Maternal cardiovascular adaptation has to provide the uterine perfusion that is necessary to meet the requirements of the developing and growing fetus by providing transport of nutrients and oxygen to the placenta and the fetus.
Thus uterine blood flow is inextricably linked to fetal growth and survival.
Reductions of uterine blood flow can occur under acute or chronic conditions or in a combination of both.
Chronic reductions of uterine blood flow can be observed in pregnancy induced hyertension (PIH), diabetes mellitus in pregnancy and intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR).
Chronic restrictions in uterine blood flow will elicit a placental and fetal response in the form of growth adaptation to the reduced supply of oxygen and nutrients to the conceptus.
If compensatory growth restriction reaches its limits intrauterine fetal distress can ensue.
In view of a possible Stent implantation, 20 infrarenal abdominal aneurysms obtained consecutively during postmortem examinations were investigated.
Measurements were performed according to toporegional criteria on the proximal and distal necks of the aneurysms as well as on their lengths and diameters.
Then we correlated the extent of the proximal and distal necks to the aneurysmal lengths and diameters, respectively.
The following results were obtained: 1.
Depending on the increase in length of the infrarenal abdominal aneurysm, there is an inproportional shortening of the proximal and distal neck.
Up to an aneurysmal length of 4 cm both proximal and distant necks are suitable for stent fixation in all cases.
With lengths of more than 4 cm according to the morphological results, the distal neck is almost always unsuitable for fixation of a simple Tube-Stent.
The proximal neck is suitable for stent fixation in all cases up to an aneurysmal length of 10 cm.
For longer aneurysms, only a quarter of all cases is suitable for stent implantation.
In all cases investigated there were severe arteriosclerotic changes with atheromatous ulcerations and secondary wall-adherent thrombi of up to three centimeter thickness in the aneurysmal and para-aneurysmal regions.
These findings have to be considered, with respect to the transluminal transport of the prosthesis as well as in the regions of the supposed implantation in the proximal and distal necks of the aneurysm with individually variable arteriosclerotic changes of the aorta.
We report on a case of paraganglioma of the cauda equina in a 48-year-old man.
These slow-growing, mostly benign and encapsulated intradural-extramedullar tumours are clinically characterized by lumbago, paraesthesia and motor deficits as well as occasi-onally by incontinence.
Paragangliomas of the cauda equina show monomorphous (main) cells arranged in a typical cell cluster pattern, demonstrating a lobular architecture and a fine net of connective tissue formed by so-called sustentacular cells; some tumours show focal ganglionic differentiation.
Because of their morphological similarity to the more common ependymomas, paragangliomas of the cauda equina are sometimes misdiagnosed so that their incidence is likely to be higher than previously estimated.
Immunohistochemistry findings are positive for neuron-specific enolase, chromogranin and other neuronal markers as well as neuropeptides (main cells) and S-100 protein (sustentacular cells) while widely lacking reactivity for GFAP.
Paragangliomas of the cauda equina represent a rare entity, of which only 80 cases have been described in the literature.
Because they only occur sporadically, they are often not included in the differential diagnosis of mass lesions of the region of the cauda equina.
Approximately one out of every three patients with carcinoma of the cervix must be expected to experience a recurrence.
The treatment of such relapses is dependent on the site and extension of the recurrence, the type of primary therapy administered and the patient's general condition.
The limit conditions for the application of the established forms of therapy available - surgical operation, radiotherapy, chemotherapy - are complex and seldom documented by randomized studies.
In general, empiric observations and historical analyses determine the backdrop against which therapy is planned.
The main experiences available are compiled in this paper to give a basis for individual treatment of patients with recurrences.
Post-traumatic pyogenic liver abscess is a rare disease.
We present the case of a 38-year-old man with multilocular liver abscess and pleural empyema following blunt abdominal trauma.
The patient had a prodrome lasting 3 months before presenting in our department.
The therapy included partial hepatectomy and pleural drainage.
Clinical signs, diagnosis and possible therapy are discussed in this case report.
The dream of every hospital computer scientist is a completely computerized flow of information in his/her facility: admission, diagnosis, treatment, transfer, and discharge of patients.
However, in developing such general hospital information systems, one runs into the following problems: (1) medical and administrative information systems form a very heterogeneous environment; (2) the structure of medical information is extremely complex, except for certain limited administrative data (admission, transfer, and discharge, for example) needed by the clinic administration.
As a result it is nearly impossible to transfer medical information from one system to another without a loss of data.
One cannot expect a universal solution to this problem within the next few years.
Therefore we present a concept which, based on existing tools, allows communication between medical information systems.
Shave excision of nevi is a technique still under debate.
Speed, simplicity, and the fact that it provides excised material for histologic examination are contrasted with the lack of excision margins and a higher rate of nevus recurrences.
In this study, the pros and cons of shave excision were evaluated.
The congenital dyserythropoietic anemias represent a group of rare inborn errors with ineffective erythropoiesis as the predominant mechanism of anemia.
They are primarily classified into three types on the basis of characteristic abnormalities of the erythroblasts as shown by light and electron microscopy.
There are distinct associated features such as pattern of heredity, cell kinetics and abnormalities of the cell membrane.
In addition, patients with apparent CDA of heterogenous phenotype are observed, that cannot be attributed to any of the three types.
Recently variant genes have been localized to different regions on chromosome 15 or 22.
Cases of CDA were reported from many ethnics, in particular in families of meditarranean origin.
Many patients load iron necessitating iron depletion.
Gallstones are a frequent complication and are observed in childhood or adolescence.
Therapeutic measures such as splenectomy, treatment by Interferon  or allogeneic bome marrow transplantation depend on the type and the severity of clinical expression, which shows large variations both within and between affected kindreds.
Sarcopenia is a constant in aging.
Observed over long periods, it can reach 1% per year.
But it is such a tenuous phenomenon that it cannot be observed over short periods at steady state.
The aging phenomenon mainly hits fibers, Type II but on aged muscle thin, normal, and hypertrophic fibers cohabit with sclerosis and fat increases.
Chronic venous insufficiency (CVI) is characterised by stage-dependent microangiopathy.
With increasing severity there is a decrease in the number of skin capillaries and the oxygen partial pressure.
The cutaneous vascular reserve, which is measured by laser-doppler fluxmetry, is reduced.
Cutaneous microangiopathy is one of the main causes of the trophic disturbances associated with CVI.
Low frequency pulsed current improves cutaneous microcirculation and thus nutrition as well as accelerating the formation of granulation tissue.
In a open prospective pilot study, 15 patients suffering from CVI with persistent leg ulcers were treated with low frequency pulsed current (Dermapulse), which is thought to improve particularly the tissue microcirculation.
The average age of the patients was 70.3 years and the average duration of ulceration was 79.1 months.
The patients were treated over a period of 38 days.
With this treatmen, 2 ulcers healed completely and 13 showed a reduction of size of on average 63%.
Capillary density increased by 43.5%, while transcutaneous oxygen partial pressure increased by 82.4%.
Electrostimulation is a treatment with few or no side effects.
From 1986 to 1996, we implanted a total of 92 hip arthroplasties (86 cementless, 4 hybrid and 2 cemented) in 65 patients with rheumatoid arthritis.
Of the 89 uncemented cups, 59 were threaded cups (Hofer-Imhof n = 45, Zweymüller n = 7, Mecring n = 5, PM n = 2) and 30 were hemispherical cups of the Harris Galante type I and II.
87 stems were implanted without cement (Zweymüller SL n = 58, Uni n = 16, Schenker n = 9, Zweymüller I n = 4) and 5 with cement.
One patient died postoperatively and three (4 implants) within the first year.
To date, one cup of each threaded type had to be revised because of loosening (revision rate approx.
6.8 %); Up to now, three of 87 (approx.
3.4 %) stem revisions (1 x Zweymüller I, 1 x Schenker, 1 x Zweymüller SL) have been undertaken.
Ten patients with twelve hip arthroplasties did not return for follow-up; some of them had a poor general health status.
The clinical and radiological results of the arthroplasties of 52 patients showed a Harris Hip Score averaging 72 after an average of 54 months (min.
Ten patients had minor complaints in the hip region.
79 % of the uncemented implants (70 out of 89 cups, 69 out of 87 stems) were assessed radiologically.
Two threaded cups showed slight migration after cancellous bone grafting in the presence of acetabular protrusion that was present in a total of 13 hip joints.
This subsided markedly after filling with cancellous bone and recentering of the hip joint.
Homogeneous incorporation of the bone grafting und thus remodelling of the medial wall was achieved, with the bone graft exhibiting marked reduction.
At final follow-up, approx.
75 % of the cementless cups had complete bone ingrowth without any evidence of radiolucency (type I), approx.
19 % had near-complete bone ingrowth with minimal radiolucencies in one zone or in a maximum of 50 % of the bone contact area (type II) and approx.
6 % had radiolucencies in more than 50 % of the bone contact area (type III).
The radiographic evaluation of the most frequently used stem (Zweymüller SL) showed approx.
47 % with only slight remodelling of the calcar (type I), approx.
33 % with moderate loss of femoral density (type II) and approx.
20 % with severe bone loss and thinning of cortical bone (type III).
Abstract   The 5th edition of the TNM classification entails a number of changes concerning head and neck tumors.
The division of stage IV tumors into three subcategories marks a significant expansion of the stage grouping procedure.
Methods: In a retrospective study the clinical course of 3247 patients with head and neck carcinomas were comparatively evaluated according to the 4th and 5th editions of the new TNM classification.
In particular it was the aim of the study to test the prognostic relevance of the subdivision of stage IV especially in mucosal cancer.
Results: In classifying the primary tumor the most extensive changes were noted for supraglottic and salivary gland tumors.
On the basis of the 4th edition of the TNM classification the following recurrence-free 5-year survival rates for 3033 cases of mucosal cancer were calculated: stage I 91,0%, stage II 78,6%, stage III 61,4%, stage IV 31,0%.
The calculations based on the 5th edition yielded: stage I 91,0%, stage II 77,2%, stage III 61,2%, stage IVA 32,4%, stage IVB 25,3%, stage IVC 3,6%.
Conclusions: The adequacy of the revised stage classification in establishing a prognostic hierarchy was confirmed.
However, a significant prognostic distinction between N2- (stage IVA) and N3-metastasis (stage IVB) could not be found.
The microcirculation is the organ that provides the direct link between blood and tissue, and thereby between the whole organism and the single cell.
Modern microcirculation research in experimental surgery is characterized by the use of high-resolution video fluorescence microscopy and quantitative computer-assisted image analysis coupled with the techniques of molecular biology and transgenic or knock-out gene technology.
These advances should improve knowledge about surgically relevant physiologic and pathophysiologic phenomena at the interface between blood and tissues and help us to understand the initial molecular mechanisms leading to organ dysfunction following inflammation, ischemia-reperfusion, and transplantation.
Legal and moral considerations hinder the introduction of preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) in Germany.
This article presents and discusses the ethical arguments for and against PGD.
In the autor's view neither the fact that PGD is not a well established technique nor the danger that single-cell-analysis may lead to misdiagnosis convincingly demonstrates that PGD is morally inacceptable.
Inconsistencies in ethical positions which defend abortions but do not accept PGD are highlighted.
The use of arguments dealing with the prediction of negative social consequences after establishing PGD is criticised.
Extensive counselling prior to PGD should be implemented in order to help couples which want to use the new technique to make an autonomous decision.
The SOFA score, a new system for patients with sepsis-related diseases, was introduced in 1994 by the "Working Group on Sepsis-Related Problems of the European Society of Intensive Care Medicine."
The purpose of this study was to compare the new SOFA score with the APACHE II and MOD scores.
The data on 874 patients from a surgical intensive care unit in an university hospital were analyzed using commercially available software (SPSS for Windows, Version 7.5.2 and MS Excel '97).
To compare the different scores, receiver-operating characteristics (ROC) - analyses were applied.
The study demonstrated a clear correlation between an elevated SOFA score and the mortality of the patients during their ICU stay (score 0 -> mortality 0 %, 1 -> 3.6 %, 2 -> 22.5 %, 3 -> 86,7 %, respectively r = 0.445; P = 0,01).
The ROC analyses of the APACHE II, the MOD and the SOFA scores were comparable (area under the curve: APACHE II 0.73, MOD 0.77, SOFA 0.71).
In conclusion, the SOFA score is reliable and might be useful in the daily routine of an intensive care unit.
In individual patients with head and neck squamous cell carcinomas (HNSCC), established prognostic factors do not satisfactorily predict clinical outcome.
For the first time we investigated a total of 100 HNSCC by Comparative Genomic Hybridization (CGH) to define chromosomal alterations that are associated with the patients prognosis.
Patients were followed for at latest 4 but at least 2 years after surgery or until death.
During this observation period twenty-nine of them died because of cancer disease.
The Kaplan-Meier method was used plotting survival curves for every single chromosomal alteration as well as every clinico-pathological parameter.
The curves were tested for significance by the log rank as well as the Breslow test.
Significance of particular prognostic parameters was then evaluated by the Cox regression model.
The overall survival time as well as the recurrence free survival time were significantly lower in patients who's tumors showed amplifications of the chromosomal region 11q13 (p=0.0008 for LR and p=0.0024 for B).
The survival time of the patients was also lower if the carcinomas carried overrepresentations of chromosome 3q (p=0.0299 for LR and p=0.0546 for B).
Multivariate analysis (Cox's proportional hazards model) revealed both alterations as most important independent prognostic factors in HNSCC.
None of the conventional clinico-pathological parameters (pT-, pN-status, UICC stage, grading) achieved statistical significance in the multivariate model.
These results suggest that in HNSCC the occurence of 11q13 amplification and 3q overrepresentation are highly significant independent prognostic markers and of better value than the established TNM and grading criteria.
We report a coincidence of balloon cell melanoma and balloon cell transformation in a dermal nevus of a 56 years old female patient.
The foamy cells in both tumors with different dignity expressed S-100 and Vimentin.
HMB45 was expressed in all balloon cells of the melanoma.
Detection of HMB45 in some of the nevus-associated balloon cells was considered as an expression of cellular activation.
We present, to the best of our knowledge, the first case of a malignant, primary plaque-type blue naevus in a 61-year-old male.
Two biopsy specimens had been examined within 13 years, and revealed a common and cellular blue variant as a precursor.
Locally invasive growth and regional lymph node swelling were present, but these alone could not confirm malignancy before evaluation of all clinical and histopathological features, as they are known to occur with benign cellular blue naevi.
The recent literature and our case indicate that there is a malignant potential in every histological and clinical variant of blue naevus.
It is difficult to provide valid data with regard to changes in incidence and prevalence of acute pancreatitis in Germany.
The lack of information is due to strict legal regulations to protect personal data, a certain lack of interest in epidemiological research and the lack of exact statistics of diseases treated in hospitals.
The incidence of acute pancreatitis in other industrialized Western countries is about 10 new cases per year and 100,000 inhabitants.
The increase of alcohol consumption over the last 30 years is associated with an increase of ethanol-induced pancreatitis.
One may speculate that due to improved diagnostic possibilities, such as CT scan, cases where acute pancreatitis is diagnosed at autopsy are rare.
Due to the increase in alcohol consumption it can be assume that the incidence and prevalence of chronic pancreatitis have increased in Germany similar to well-documented data from Denmark.
Since alcohol consumption is slightly decreasing in Germany it is likely that the present incidence of about 10 cases of chronic pancreatitis per 100,000 inhabitants will also decrease.
Process-Experiential (PE) therapy is a neo-humanistic treatment that strives to maintain a creative tension between a client-centered emphasis on a genuine, estecming, empathic relationship and the active, task-focused process-directive style of Gestalt therapie.
This form of treatment is scientifically validated (Grawe 1997).
Its theory of function and dysfunction has been updated via contributions from contemporary psychological theory.
It incorporates a set of key therapeutic tasks, each of which is characterized by specific client marker and resolution state, series of steps clients pass through on their way to resolution, and therapist interventions used to facilitate client progress through those steps.
This second part of the review provides an overview of specific therapeutic tasks.
At last suggestions for practical implementation are discussed, and available outcome data is summarized.
The human arterial blood pressure shows not only exogenic alterations, but also spontaneous fluctuations.
This blood pressure variability has both scientific and clinical relevance.
A well-known phenomenon is the so-called "white coat hyptertension" which may severely affect diagnosis and therapy of essential hypertension.
Furthermore, several studies have provided evidence that the degree of end-organ damage in hypertensive patients is closely related to the circardian blood pressure variability.
Therefore, it is tempting to suggest that an optimal antihypertensive treatment should take an improvement of the blood pressure variability into consideration.
The faeces sign is a recently described computed tomography (CT) feature of small-bowel obstruction and is seen as a mottled, faeces-like content within the lumen of the dilated loops above the level of the obstacle.
To evaluate its prevalence, significance, and diagnostic value we retrospectively reviewed 94 consecutive cases of small-intestine obstruction studied with CT in the last 6 years.
The faeces sign was recognizable in 7 cases (7.4 %) and was localized within ileal loops in all these subjects.
In 6 of the 7 cases there was a simple and progressive obstruction, while there was a sudden onset with intestinal strangulation in only 1.
The faeces sign is due to the intraluminal stagnation of enteric material and is generally recognizable in subjects with subacute obstruction.
In our experience it is relatively uncommon.
Nevertheless, it seems to be rather specific and may be a valuable accessory feature in the CT study of small-bowel obstruction.
A case report is presented to illustrate the cutaneous manifestations in essential thrombocythaemia.
Knowledge of the related skin lesions may lead to earlier detection of this myeloproliferative disorder.
Treatment may prevent severe haemorrhagic or thrombotic complications.
Erythromelalgia is causally related to thrombocythaemia; prompt relief of painful symptoms after treatment with aspirin is typical.
Surgical treatment of proximal aortic disease traditionally consists of composite replacement of valve and aorta.
Recent reconstructive procedures on the aortic root allow for treatment of aortic dilatation and concomitant aortic valve regurgitation without the associated disadvanteages of mechanical heart valves.
Two psychotic patients developed hyperglycaemia several weeks after starting olanzapine.
In one case the elevated glucose concentrations returned to normal soon after withdrawal of olanzapine.
In the second case severe ketoacidosis with letal outcome occured.
Profilometry is a novel procedure allowing precise analysis of skin surface structure.
With the help of a synthetic material a negative image of a defined area of the skin is taken.
During the subsequent analytical procedure the roughness is determined by means of a profilometer.
A commercially available statistics software program is used for statistical analysis of the results.
This procedure was applied to check for to evaluate positive effects of oestrogen creams on the structure of the skin surface on the face.
This article describes the historic roots of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) from the first experiments at 1800 until the introduction into the pharmaceutical market in 1899.
In 1869, Hermann Kolbe enlightened the chemical structure of salicylic acid, which was used at that time as an analgetic and antipyretic drug.
Because of the side effects, for example the irritation of the stomach, analytical chemists and pharmacologists searched for chemical modifications.
In August 1897 Felix Hoffmann (1868-1946) was successful in acetylizing the salicylic acid to acetylsalicyl acid (ASA).
Between 1897 and 1899 Kurt Witthauer (1865-1911) collected clinical data and experiences on the efficiency of ASA as an analgetic and antipyretic drug.
In 1899 ASA was introduced into the pharamaceutical market as Aspirin and became soon one of the most successful drugs of its time.
The indication exceeds analgesia in the mean time and to prophylaxis of myocardial ischaemia or cerebral stroke, among others.
Background: The results of the Cryo-ROP group showed that cryotherapy significantly reduces the rate of adverse morphological and functional outcome of eyes with threshold retinopathy of prematurity.
Structural status and visual acuity of 48 eyes which consecutively underwent cryocoagulation in our hospital between 1990 and 1994 were examined at 2 years corrected gestational age.
Despite wide-spread immunisation programs epidemic influenza continues to cause ten thousands of deaths worldwide, every year, especially in the high risk groups of elderly or immunocompromised persons.
At present, amantadine and rimantadine are the only approved agents available for prophylactic and therapeutic use, yet, the deployment of these substances is problematic: neither of the two drugs is effective against influenza B, their use is accompanied by rapid development of viral resistance, and they show many adverse effects.
In contrast, zanamivir and GS4071/GS4104 are rationally developed influenza-specific neuraminidase inhibitors, proving prophylactic and therapeutic efficacy against influenza A and B, as well in vitro as in animal models, and in experimental human studies.
Zanamivir and GS4071/GS4104 are well tolerated without adverse reactions after topic and oral administration, respectively.
Resistant viral strains have been found in cell culture in the presence of both drugs, but the frequency of resistance emergence during clinical use is unclear.
To date, the biggest recognizable disadvantage of neuraminidase inhibitors and Amantadin/Rimantadin alike is that they need to be given within 30-48 h after onset of symptoms, but seeking medical attention at this stage of infection does not seem to be realistic in medical practice.
As neuraminidase inhibitors up to now could mainly be assessed by experimental data, specifically performed clinical trials will have to prove the positive influence of these drugs on the morbidity, course of infection, and mortality of high risk persons when administered for prophylaxis as well as for therapy.
Background and purpose: Without recanalisation, acute basilar artery (BA) occlusion has a mortality of 90 %, which is reduced to 50 % if recanalisation is achieved.
Fast diagnosis of BA occlusion is necessary in order to start thrombolytic therapy without delay.
We wanted to assess the role of CT angiography (CTA) in the diagnostic evaluation of suspected acute BA occlusion.
25 patients with coronary heart disease (CHD, 62  +/-  9 years) and 18 subjects free from cardiovascular disease (28  +/-  9 years) were tested on a cycle ergometer using a graded incremental test protocol: a) in the common upright position, b) as dynamic stress echocardiography in a semi-supine position.
Whereas no relevant differences could be detected between the two conditions for the healthy subjects concerning heart rate, blood pressure, and rate-pressure product (2 x 3 ANOVA, t-test with -adjustment), the CHD patients showed both significantly higher heart rates as well as a significantly higher rate-pressure product (50 W: 15 300  +/-  2973 mmHg/min vs. 13 822  +/-  3042 mmHg/min; 75 W: 18 028  +/-  3479 mmHg/min vs 16 337  +/-  2619 mmHg/min) on equivalent stages during stress echocardiography if compared to the sitting position.
There were no differences for systolic blood pressure in this group; the diastolic values were higher in the sitting position at rest and during 50 W. Lactate concentrations (determined only in the healthy subjects) were significantly higher on all stages during dynamic stress echocardiography.
The workload at the individual anaerobic threshold (IAT) was significantly lower.
A new stoechiometric mixture of 27% dicalcium-phosphate (DCPA) and 73% tetra-calcium-phosphate (TTCP) can be prepared with water intraoperatively to a paste that subsequently sets to a structurally stabile implant composed of hydroxyapatite (HA).
Primary setting time is about 20 min; pH during setting ranges from 6.5 to 8.5.
There is no relevant curing heat or expansion or contraction.
Compressive strength is about 50 MPa, tensile strength about 8 MPa.
Over a period of about 4 h in physiological milieu, the cement converts to hydroxyapatite.
This product is no longer redissolvable  in normal body fluid.
This cement can be used for non-load-bearing applications especially in craniofacial bone surgery.
Cranial defects due to tumour or trauma as well as deficits in the facial skeleton may be reconstructed using this new biomaterial.
In nine of ten patients we used the hydroxyapatite cement successfully for reconstructions in the craniofacial area.
Fluid control of the operation field and implant site is extremely important and sometimes difficult to achieve.
Further applications could be all non-load-bearing augmentations such as filling of blocked paranasal sinuses, of dentoalveolar cysts and defects following dental apectomy or fixation of implanted hearing-aid electrodes.
The perspectives for the hydroxyapatite cement include its application as a carrier for osteogenic protein preparations, especially because of its isothermic reaction and intrinsic osteoconductive characteristics.
We present a non-invasive epilepsy surgery protocol, which includes EEG-video-monitoring, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), interictal positron emission tomography (PET) and ictal single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT).
According to this non-invasive protocol 50 of 173 patients with medically intractable focal epilepsy underwent resective surgery.
The localization of the epileptogenic zone was based on the congruence of the localizing results of EEG-video-montoring, MRI, interictal PET and ictal SPECT.
46 (92%) of the patients had temporal and 4 (8%) had extratemporal epilepsies.
78% (n=39) of all patients operated according to our non-invasive protocol were postoperatively completely or almost seizure free.
Extramesiotemporal resections could be carried out without invasive EEG-recording if the epileptogenic zone was not adjacent to the eloquent cortex.
We conclude from our results that in a considerable number of patients with medically intractable particularly temporal focal epilepsies, resective epilepsy surgery can be based on non-invasive EEG-evaluations and the risk of invasive recordings can be avoided.
Necrolytic migratory erythema (NME) is mostly associated with a pancreatic-A-cell-glucagonoma and is considered to be a well-defined cutaneous paraneoplastic syndrome.
We report on a 74-year old female who atypically developed a NME after surgical treatment of a rectal adenocarcinoma.
Continuous staging and laboratory investigation over four years gave no evidence of any metastasis or further neoplasia.
Hair samples and perspiration collected from long term drug addicts (n = 18) under constant methadone treatment were investigated.
Hair segments representing the individual hair growth of 4 weeks were analyzed for methadone, opiates and cocaine by GC/MS.
The results obtained from the transdermal collection devices confirmed the presence of drug substances in variable amounts on the skin surface, methadone being the main analyte.
The perspiration test period lasted for 4 days.
For six persons illicit drugs similar to those in the corresponding hair samples were found.
Overall, a poor relationship (r = 0,602) was found between the methadone dose under steady state conditions and the methadone level in hair.
The results are discussed in the light of pharmacokinetic aspects, drug uptake by perspiration and forensic interpretation.
Bilateral carotid artery dissection is a rare and unusual complication of blunt cervicofacial trauma.
The diagnosis of a carotid injury is rarely suspected in trauma patients with neurological deficits.
Neurological symptoms may develop in a delayed fashion.
Angiography should be considered in trauma patients with hemiplegia and a normal mental status and in patients with blunt cervical trauma with an abnormal neurological examination.
Initial heparinisation can prevent arterial thrombosis and neurological deterioration.
The authors report their findings which are based on 10 years of interdisciplinary cooperation in the treatment of chronic pain patients.
They point out the practical use of their findings in daily practice.
Abdominal compartment syndrome is defined by increased intraabdominal pressure above 20 mmHg with increased pulmonary peak pressure and oliguria.
In primary abdominal compartment syndrome the increased intraabdominal pressure is caused directly by peritonitis, ileus or abdominal and pelvic trauma.
Secondary compartment syndrome is a result of forced closure of the abdominal wall after abdominal surgery.
The effects are decreased cardiac output, pulmonary atelectasis, oliguria to anuria and hepatic as well as intestinal reduction of perfusion.
Effective monitoring is done by standardised measuring of urinary bladder pressure.
Normal values are between 0 and 7 cm H2O, after elective laparotomies 5-12 cm H20.
Above 25 cm H20 they are definitely pathological.
For the prevention and therapy of manifested abdominal compartment syndrome the application of a laparostomy using a resorbable mesh is recommended.
Between 1988 and 1999 we applied a laparostomy to lower the intraabdominal pressure in 377 patients.
In 16 % of the cases it was indicated by primary abdominal compartment syndrome with a bladder pressure of 31  +/-  4 cm H20 preoperatively, which could be lowered to 17  +/-  4 cm H20 by laparostomy.
An early reconstruction of the abdominal wall could be performed in 18 % of the cases.
Conclusions: The abdominal compartment syndrome is an often underestimated problem in abdominal surgery involving multiple organ systems.
The temporary laparostomy lowering intraabdominal pressure rather than a forced closure of the abdominal wall should be used in all circumstances.
In general, assessment of the correct placement of a central venous catheter is performed by fluoroscopy or by postinsertional chest X-ray.
We report a case of intraaortic malposition of a central venous catheter in a 59-year-old male patient that was not detectable in chest films.
Further exploration of this patient revealed a left-sided superior vena cava.
Definition of the problem: In 1997, Percutaneous Transluminal Coronary Angioplasty (PTCA) was performed in 138.001 cases in Germany.
The standard indications, single vessel disease and badly controlled angina, are more and more extended to multivessel disease with and without severe angina, unstable or preinfarction angina, and acute myocardial infarction (AMI) itself.
Dilating asymptomatic stenoses of more than 70-80% is a widely used indication, intending prophylaxis of complete occlusion and AMI.
Actually there is no generally accepted guideline for the different new indications, conservative versus invasive treatment schedule.
It is difficult for the patient to get appropriate information before his decision between mechanical procedures and conservative methods; authentic informed consent actually seems to be in a very bad position.
In 1992 the working group called "Arbeitsgemeinschaft leitender kardiologischer Krankenhausärzte (ALKK)" decided to start a registry of all PTCA procedures, in order to gain knowledge about the present status of PTCA in Germany.
Up to March 1999, 198.608 PTCA are logged.
Two children developed multiple melanocytic naevi after polychemotherapy administered for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in one and for non-Hodgkin lymphoma in the other.
Induction of naevi does not seem to be related to specific agents used in chemotherapy, but rather to the immunosuppression resulting from multiple-agent chemotherapy.
There are reports in the literature of both intrinsically and iatrogenically immunosuppressed patients who have developed multiple melanocytic naevi.
Many small randomized studies with <beta>-blockers in patients with chronic heart failure have been published in recent years.
A large meta-analysis by Lechat combining 18 studies with 3023 patients showed a 32% reduction in mortality in patients treated with <beta>-blockers.
Mortality and hospitalization together were reduced by 37%.
In 1998 two large randomized trials investigating Bisoprolol (CIBIS II) and Metoprolol (MERIT-HF) were finished.
Both studies show a significant reduction in mortality in patients treated with <beta>-blockers.
The ongoing COMET study compares <beta>1-selective blockers like metoprolol with vasodilatative <beta>-blockers like carvedilol in patients with chronic heart failure.
Large clinical registries demonstrate clinical practicability of <beta>-blocker treatment of patients with chronic heart failure.
All patients with stabel chronic heart failure ought to be treated with <beta>-blockers additional to a basic therapy with ACE inhibitors, diuretics, and digitalis.
The <beta>-blocker therapy regimen is to start with low doses and to increase the dose carefully:"Start low and go slow".
Purpose: Cardiac imaging includes determination of the size and structure of the cardiac chambers, valves, great vessels and the coronary arteries, chamber and valvular function, myocardial perfusion, viability and metabolism.
A 52-year-old patient presenting with severe thoracic pain of more than 30 minutes duration and ST-segment elevation > 1 mV in leads V1-3 was given 100 mg rt-PA. With persisting thoracic pain and ST-segment elevation, coronary angiography was performed 90 minutes after administration of thrombolytic therapy.
Surprisingly, angiography revealed normal coronary arteries in presence of marked hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
New onset of thoracic pain after four hours led to chest raiograph demonstrating increased mediastinal widening and new pleural effusion as compared to a baseline chest film prior to rt-PA. Spiral computed tomography revealed overt Type B aortic dissection with an intimal flap and communication distal to the origin of the left subclavian artery with signs of a mediastinal hematoma.
Immediate cardiac surgery with replacement of the dissected aortic segment was successfully performed.
A literature review revealed 4% of aortic dissection to present with electrocardiographic signs of acute myocardial infarction and 13% to have concomitant coronary artery disease; moreover 34 cases of aortic dissection were misdiagnosed as infarction and subjected to thrombolytic agents with a mortality of 64% underlining the importance of exclusion of dissection prior to thombolytic therapy.
Between 1984 and 1996 we performed a Mason gastroplasty for the treatment of morbid obesity: 14 patients (average age 40 (26-48) years, body mass index (BMI) 48 (37-71) kg/m2, excessive body weight 67 (41-116) kg).
Since the end of 1996 we now apply adjustable laparoscopic gastric banding (lab band): 73 patients (average age 39 (22-64) years, BMI 45 (32-69) kg/m2, excessive body weight 66 (41-116) kg).
We compared the early and late results of both methods.
Early results: no relevant morbidity or mortality for neither method.
Late/intermediate results: reoperation rate for both methods 15 %.
After an average of 3.7 years the excessive body weight loss (EWL) for gastroplasty was 54 (22-96) %.
The EWL after lab band for 24 patients after 12 months was 47 (11-127) % and for 8 patients after 18 months 51 (28-139) %.
Since the introduction of the lap band the number of bariatric operations has greatly increased.
Nevertheless, the perioperative complication rate has remained low, and the long-term outcome is similar for both methods.
We investigated the relationships between prolactin (PRL) levels and antibody occurrence in systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
No significant association between PRL levels and the majority of the autoantibodies studied (anti-U1 RNP, anti-rRNP, anti-Sm, anti-dsDNA, anti-DNP, auto-LCA, anti-EACA) could be confirmed (P > 0.05), anti-Ro/SSA antibodies being an exception.
Our results showed significantly increased frequencies of these antibodies in the group of female SLE patients with normal PRL levels (< 20 µg/L): anti Ro/SSA in 53% (P < 0.025, 2 = 5.80, RR = 4.0) and anti-Ro/SSA + anti-Ro/La in 60% (P < 0.05, 2 = 4.05) compared with female SLE patients with hyperprolactinemia.
An echinococcal cyst of the heart is a rare cause of acute cardiac tamponade.
We report on a 24 year old male from the Kosovo who was brought in an emergency state from a provincial hospital complaining of severe dyspnea, thoracic pain, dizziness, and a short period of unconsciousness.
Surgical decompression had to be performed urgently, because the pericardium could not be punctuated due to the position of the hydatid cyst.
We report on the case of a 51-year-old female patient who had been suffering from multiple itching nodules for 3 years.
Some of these lesions were classified clinically and histologically as keratoacanthomas (KA), whereas the multiple smaller nodules were found on histological examination to be either early stage KA or lesions of prurigo simplex subacuta.
In two KA, HPV subtype 2 was identified by in situ hybridization.
Treatment with etretinate resulted in remission of the fully developed KA and reduced the occurrence of new ones.
The outbreak of multiple KA in our patient resembled a rare subtype described by Witten and Zak.
Postclinical follow-up for 28 months to date has revealed that the KA arise from the subacute prurigo lesions.
This mode of prurigo-dependent KA development has not previously been reported.
We describe a rare case of a papillary fibroelastoma of the aortic valve occurring simultaneously with a cystic tumor (a so-called mesothelioma) of the atrioventricular nodal region.
At autopsy the tumor was found to prolapse into and occlude the right coronary ostium, leading to an acute, recurring myocardial infarction.
Histological examination of the grossly unremarkable conduction system of the heart revealed a cystic tumor in the region of the atrioventricular node.
To our knowledge, this is the first report of coexistence of these two rare cardiac tumors.
Although still rare, pregnancy and delivery in women with spinal cord injuries is becoming more frequent (Table 2).
In 85%-90% of patients with lesions above T6 symptoms of autonomic hyperreflexia (Table 1), especially paroxysmal and excessive increases in arterial blood pressure, may occur.
In anaesthesising a 31-year-old paraplegic primigravida with a complete transverse spinal lesion at T4 for an elective caesarean section, no indication of hypertonic cardiovascular dysregulation either intra- or postoperatively was observed after repeated epidural administration of bupivacaine.
Distinct intraoperative spasticity of the abdominal wall muscles was, however, not influenced by the dosages selected.
Repetitive magnetic stimulation (rTMS) is a non-invasive, painless method to induce transient activation in circumscript regions of the human cortex.
In contrast to TMS with single pulses rTMS allows a more effective stimulation of association cortex and temporary interference with the proper functioning of stimulated areas.
Possible applications for examination of the functional anatomy of language lateralisation, memory functions and visual perception are discussed.
Possible therapeutic for movement  disorders and depression are discussed.
On the basis of theoretical considerations  and current experience rTMS induced epileptogenic effects are discussed and safety  recommendations are given.
An unusual shaped piece of skin was found in the oral cavity of a woman who had been stabbed to death.
Physical examination of the victim's numerous male acquaintances revealed one to have an injury of the same shape on the ventral surface of the left ring finger.
Molecular biological investigations showed that this suspect and the piece of skin exhibited corresponding DNA patterns (frequency 1 : 700 000).
This case underlines the importance of physical examination as a preliminary to further detailed investigation.
Nineteen men with post-prostatectomy urinary incontinence grade II and III (mean follow-up 12.7 months) underwent periurethral injections of collagen.
In all, 37 procedures were performed; 58 % of the patients underwent the procedure at least twice.
A mean of 16 ml collagen was injected.
The results were successful directly after injections, leaving all patients continent; however, after 3 months the treatment failed and all patients returned to their incontinence status as seen preoperatively.
No perioperative complications were noted.
Despite the simple and safe nature of this procedure, men with severe postoperative stress incontinence do not benefit from periurethral collagen injections.
After a short review of the literature, some aspects of the psychodynamics and therapy of trichotillomania with an adolescent patient are presented that up to now have not been described in great detail.
Against the backdrop of previous fears of being abandoned, the patient feels threatened that while coping with the developmental tasks of sexuality and aggressiveness she will be dropped once again.
This psychodynamically oriented therapy makes it possible for the patient to accept and verbalize the corresponding feelings in a relationship that gives a feeling of security.
Therefore, the symptoms that previously served the purpose of regulating diffuse inner tensions and fears may be abandoned.
According to sonographic criteria, 55 patients underwent surgical treatment with mobilisation in a lower leg plaster or conservative treatment with early mobilisation in heel pad (3 cm) shoes when an acute Achilles tendon rupture (ATR) was diagnosed.
The follow-up period in 51 patients was 2.4 years (operated group = 28 patients, conservative group = 23 patients) with clinical examination and testing of isokinetic muscle strength in knee joint flexion.
After surgical treatment, minor wound infections occurred in 10.6 %.
Reruptures occurred in 13 % of the conservative group.
Following conservative treatment, the rate of stress-related achillodynia was significantly higher (P = 0.019).
In the operated group mean isokinetic muscle strength was 13.7 % lower than in the uninvolved leg and decreased significantly with non-operative treatment to 75.3 % (P = 0.012).
We recommend surgical treatment of acute ATR.
The indications for conservative treatment depend on the extent of the rupture (measured by ultrasound in the equinus position), the desired level of daily activity and the patient's degree of compliance.
"MicroSort" promises to become a reliable method for preselecting the sex of our children.
As so many innovations in the field of assisted reproductive technology, however, sex selection raises difficult moral and legal issues.
In this paper, we focus on the question whether or not sex selection calls for a legal ban.
Since it does not seem to imply any serious harm to others, we argue in favour of the legalization of sex selection.
Acute limb ischemia is an emergency which regularly requires operative treatment in departments of general surgery.
In about 70 % of cases there is an embolic reason for acute ischemia.
In the majority of cases urgent operative desobliteration is required to guarantee limb salvage.
The introduction of balloon catheters reduced the surgical trauma significantly in cases of long secondary thromboses.
More complex procedures are required in patients with preexisting chronic arterial occlusive disease.
The mortality of these emergency operations is still 10-20 % with a limb salvage rate of 80-90 %.
Infectious complications related to acquired neutropenia have become a major medical issue, often requiring intensive care management.
These infections may be lethal if empirical broad-spectrum treatment is not rapidly started at the first sign of infection (i.e., fever), and this concept is now widely recognized a standard practice.
However, the choice of antibiotics has generated considerable controversy for nearly 25 years.
After reviewing some particularities of infection in neutropenic patients, this paper will discuss the options and present comprehensive algorithm for non-infectious diseases specialist, including recent advances about early IV-oral switch and the selection of low risk patients for outpatient management.
Background: It has been suggested that inflammatory processes play a role in the pathogenesis of acute coronary syndromes (ACS).
C-reactive protein (CRP) is a classic acute phase protein.
It is yet unclear whether, in addition to established markers as troponin T (TnT), determination of CRP in patients admitted for ACS contributes significantly to the diagnosis and prognosis of ACS.Patients and Methods: We investigated 50 patients with ACS (59.4 SD 13.9 years) in the first hour after admission and 4-24h later with respect to TnT (Elecsys, Roche Diagnostics) and CRP (biokit, modified Quantex CRP plus, analytical sensitivity 0.02mg/dL).
Fifty percent of the patients were classified as having unstable angina retrospectively.
All patients were followed in the 6 weeks post discharge regarding death and recurrent ACS.Results: The cumulative event rate at 6 weeks after discharge was 62.5% for patients being CRP and TnT positive compared to 35.3% in TnT positive and CRP negative patients.
In TnT negative patients a positive CRP test predicted 33.3% of events and 28.8% of patients negative for CRP and TnT had events at 42 days post discharge.
Logistic regression analysis regarding the primary endpoint including TnT and CRP (4-24h values), age, gender and diagnosis resulted in independent prediction of ACS or death by TnT (cutoff 0.1µg/L, p=0.048, odds ratio=7.5) and CRP (cutoff 0.862mg/dL, p=0.026, odds ratio=5.3).
Sensitivity/specificity for AMI diagnosis were 69.6%/75% for TnT and 12%/72% for CRP in the first hour and 91.3%/68.2% for TnT and 68%/72% for CRP 4-24h later.Conclusions: Besides TnT, high sensitivity CRP determination has no additional value for early AMI diagnosis.
The prognosis of these patients during the first 24 hours is significantly and independently predicted by CRP measurements in addition to troponin T.
Purpose: Evaluation of clinical and morphological results in 44 consecutive patients with 45 aneurysms of the posterior circulation.
Following coronary artery bypass grafting repeat ischemia mandatory for reintervention occurs in 2 to 30% of cases, depending mainly on graft age.
Selection of a suitable strategy for revascularisation - transcatheter angioplasty or reoperation - depends on various parameters including coronary morphology, left ventricular performance, comorbidity and availability of graft material.
Catheterbased interventions on saphenous vein bypass grafts are feasible, but lower primary success rates and a higher incidence of restenosis - compared with native coronary arteries - have to be expected.
Repeat coronary artery bypass graft operations are associated with a significantly higher perioperative morbidity and mortality, patency rates are lower and late clinical outcome is worse than in primary surgery.
We report on a patient who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting 4 years ago revealing a high grade ostial stenosis in a jump-graft supplying RCA, LAD and Cx sequentially, making reintervention necessary.
As a prerequisite serial balloon angioplasty of two native vessels was performed prior to ostial intervention.
Intravascular-ultrasound guided directional coronary atherectomy was performed with good primary and long-term result.
Our case demonstrates that, if all relevant clinical parameters and different therapeutic options are taken into account, complex transcatheter angioplasty procedures are feasible and associated with a reasonable amount of risk, thus avoiding repeat coronary artery bypass graft operations.
In recent years the indication for a mastectomy for breast cancer has been increasingly restricted.
The use of plastic reconstructive techniques enhances the rate of breast-conserving therapy even for large breast tumors with excellent cosmetic results and oncological safety.
The breast-to-tumor ratio and locally complete resection with free tumor margins of 1-2 cm are the most important factors in breast-conserving surgery.
Different techniques of reduction mammoplasty within the concept of oncological breast surgery not only allow large tumors in large breasts to be resected, but also relatively large tumors in normal sized or even smaller breasts to be resected.
Other advantages are the reduction of breast size and therefore target volume before postoperative radiation procedures as well as in cancer prophylaxis and risk reduction by reducing ipsi- and contralateral breast tissue.
Reduction mammoplasty techniques with different resection areas have to be selected for individual tumor locations.
The best symmetry is achieved by bilateral mammoplasty in a one step procedure with lumpectomy and axillary dissection.
Oncoplastic or reconstructive surgery in the target breast is often followed by procedures to improve symmetry by contralateral reduction.
Whenever possible, mammoplasty techniques with minimal scarring should be chosen out of a variety of reduction procedures.
Epidermoid cysts are rare, benign tumors of the testis or, less frequently, the inguinal cord.
Generally, they affect males between 10 and 39 years.
In newborns they are rare.
We report on a newborn with an epidermoid cyst of the right testis that had been diagnosed in utero and was removed with preservation of the testicle.
Although there are various published descriptions of the dura mater spinalis [4, 7, 9, 11, 16], some points relating to the texture of the collagen fibres in the dura have still not been adequately explained.
In this study the orientation of the collagen fibril bundles was revealed with the aid of scanning electron microscopy, and our observations have yielded new insights into the three-dimensional structure of the human dura mater spinalis.
Reconstructive plastic surgery is not always possible or advisable for nasal defects following tumor resections.
Facial prostheses offer an alternative therapy.
Since 1991, 37 patients with nasal defects after tumor surgery were treated in the Berlin Center of Facial Prostheses: 28 received "soft" silicone facial prostheses and 9 "solid" polymethylmetacrylate facial prostheses.
In 35 patients protheses were bone-anchored: Brånemark implants were used in 12 patients and an Epitec frame construction in 23 patients.
Glue-on prostheses were applied to only two patients.
No intraoperative complications occurred at implant insertion.
During following visits only minor inflammations were observed around implants and were treated locally.
The implant success rate was 78% for the Brånemark implants (89.7% in non- radiated areas and 50% in radiated areas) and 100% in radiated and non-radiated areas for the Epitec system.
Our investigation shows that given the right indication, the bone-anchored facial prosthesis is safe, cosmetically acceptable, uncomplicated and not stressful for the patient.
We report a patient who developed malignant transformation of a cellular blue nevus.
At the age of 19 years the congenital, pigmented tumor on the left buttock was histopathologically diagnosed as cellular blue nevus.
Thirty years later the tumor dramatically increased in size, involving the entire left buttock within several months.
Multiple biopsies revealed the presence of a cellular blue nevus within the papillary dermis and an invasive, pleomorphic pigmented sarcoma in the depth of the tissue spreading into subcutis and skeletal muscle.
Both benign and malignant cells were S100+, vimentin+ and HMB-45+, but only the malignant tumor cells stained positive for the proliferating cell nuclear antigen.
General examination disclosed multiple metastases in the paraaortal lymph nodes and the retroperitoneum as well as a single brain metastasis.
Despite palliative therapy with ionizing radiation and chemotherapy, the patient developed generalized metastases and died within weeks.
This case clearly confirms that cellular blue nevi have the potential for malignant transformation and that the malignant variant may behave aggressively just as a malignant melanoma.
(Acitve alert) Hypnosis and sports in the psychotherapy of out-patients with anxiety disorders.
A process-oriented approach combining hypnotherapeutic with cognitive-behavioral concepts within a systemic model of psychotherapy for the outpatient treatment of anxiety disorders is outlined.
The use of active alert hypnosis (hypnosis by bicycle ergometry) combining elements of hypnotherapy and sports therapy is adapted to patients characteristics and the process of therapy.
Relaxation and active alert hypnosis and different sports are used as methods of cue exposure respectively training of competence.
The treatment is sequentially structured (motivation, symptom-control, conflict, integration).
Active alert hypnosis catalyses the therapeutic process within the stage of symptom-control (reduction of anxiety and depression) and of conflict (modifcation of intrapsychic conficts or traumata within trance induced by physical exercises).
Therapeutic goals and techniques for each stage are specified by case examples.
Endoscopic techniques in the spine have become possible with improvements in instrumentation.
Other minimally invasive techniques are limited to intradiscal surgery, not at the site of the pathology.
With the transforaminal approach, treatment in the epidural space has become possible.
In a pilot study we investigated the pitfalls, risks, and complications of transforaminal surgery.
Patient satisfaction and acceptance of the method were documented.
Some 27 patients with disk pathologies at the level of the disk space, excluding extremely medially situated herniations, were treated.
We used a standard posterolateral approach under local anesthesia combined with spinal morphine anesthesia.
The treated levels were L5/S1 (11), L4/5 (12), L3/4 (3), and L2/3 (1).
All areas could be reached by this approach.
One procedure had to be abandoned because of instrumentation problems.
One patient had recurrent disk herniation and had an open procedure.
Two patients were reoperated because of persistent pain.
No signs of reherniation could be found in these cases, but there was swelling of the nerve root and minimal scarring.
Minor complications were trancient root paresthesia and headache postoperatively.
Postoperative MRI or CT scans revealed only little scar tissue.
This impression was supported in the open revisions we performed.
Clinical acceptance of the procedure was excellent and the patients recovered very quickly.
Endoscopic transforaminal surgery has a considerable learning curve, even when surgeons are acquainted with the posterolateral approach and arthroskopic surgery.
However, it offers a good alternative to other minimally invasive procedures and has to be seen as a good alternative to open disk surgery, too.
Quality management in a rescue coordination center (RCC) not only needs an evaluation of quantitative parameters (such as time intervals), but also an examination of the correlation between suspected and real found emergency situations.
For that purpose it is necessary to request feedback informations about kind and severity of the emergency situation from the emergency medical team working at the scene.
The case of a fatal catheter-induced cardiac tamponade in a 81-year-old woman is reported.
Death occurred after a delay of 18 h following placement of a central venous catheter for parenteral feeding.
According to the clinical and histological findings, placement of the catheter caused a primary perforation.
Confirmation of proper placement of the catheter tip was not performed.
Despite clinical indications on the forthcoming complication, sufficient emergency treatment was not carried out.
Background: The rapid integration of new technology into ophthalmologic practice, e. g. LASIK (laser in situ keratomileusis), is associated with new complications.
The limitations of the new technology cannot be precisely determined.
During lamellar cuts with microkeratomes intraocular pressure (IOP) elevations occur.
The IOP elevation during the lamellar cut cannot be determined by conventional tonometry.
Due to its superior soft tissue contrast conventional MRI is the imaging method of  choice in the evaluation of ankle joint disorders.
Conventional MR imaging can accurately demonstrate normal or acutely injured ligaments; however, in subacute and chronic injury joint fluid necessary for delineation of injured ligaments is absent and MR arthrography should be performed.
MR arthrography uses the intraarticular injection of contrast material to distend the joint, yielding improved discrimination of intraarticular structures.
This joint distension with MR arthrography is also helpful in the staging of osteochondritis dissecans, since in cases of unstable lesions tracking of contrast material into the interface can be more easily demonstrated.
Finally, high contrast and joint distension by MR arthrography improves the detection of intraarticular loose bodies, which often require surgery.
MR arthrography, although invasive, may provide additional information in various ankle joint disorders.
Several studies have demonstrated an association Chlamydia pneumoniae with coronary artery disease, suggesting that infection with C. pneumoniae increases the risk for coronary artery disease by factor 2 or more.
Since atherosclerosis is considered to be a chronic inflammatory process, these data would fit into the response-to-injury hypothesis of atherosclerosis rather than representing a completely novel concept.
Several pathomechanisms as increased cytokine synthesis, proliferative and proaggregatory effects could transmit the effects of chronic C. pneumoniae infection.
Animal models and first clinical trials using antibiotic therapy seem to support an etiological role of C. pneumoniae in coronary artery disease.
In this paper the current knowledge of the role of C- pneumoniae in coronary artery disease is reviewed and possible pathomechanisms are discussed.
Preeclampsia is a disorder specific to pregnancy which can affect all maternal organs.
Cerebral involvement with the occurence of convulsions is the defining factor for eclampsia.
The most prominent signs of cerebral dysfunction include headache, hyperreflexia, visual disturbances, confusion and/or altered state of consciousness.
Patients usually recover completely however some patients remain disabled due to cerebrovascular damage.
Intracerebral and subarachnoidal hemorrhage are severe however rare complications of eclampsia.
TCD investigations regularly find vasospasm in all great cerebral arteries.
Reversible hypodense lesions in the white matter on early CT-scans and increased signal intensities on T2-weighted MRT images indicate local edema.
The etiology of preeclampsia and eclampsia remains unknown and its current pathophysiology is still hypothetical.
The clinical picture may best be explained by an endothelial dysfunction with increased vascular sensivity to circulating pressure agents as well as by a structural endothelial lesion with fluid loss from the intravascular compartment.
This article reviews the surgical treatment of chronic posterior knee instability.
The treatment rationale includes exact definition of the instability pattern ("envelope-of-motion" of the tibia) by clinical examination, arthrometry and stress radiography.
Exact evaluation of the osseous anatomy is mandatory to identify an eventual varus morphotype.
This osseous variant in combination with posterior/posterolateral instability should be treated by an osteotomy in every case.
The technique of additive osteotomy to correct varus and increase the sagittal tilt of the proximal tibia is described.
Ligament reconstruction in chronic posterior knee instability must address the posterior cruciate ligament and the lateral/posterolateral structures in many cases.
Patellar tendon grafts, quadriceps tendon grafts or hamstrings can be used for posterior cruciate ligament replacement.
Arthroscopic or mini-open techniques may be used for graft placement, direct posterior fixation of the graft via a posterior incision is an option for patellar tendon grafts.
Bousquet's biceps plasty or Clancy's biceps tenodesis may be used for posterolateral stabilization; a biceps tendon strip can also be used for lateral collateral ligament reconstruction.
Results of surgery are still moderate.
In the author's series of chronic posterior/posterolateral instability, 26 cases were treated with posterior cruciate ligament reconstruction and biceps tenodesis.
Follow-up at 18 months demonstrated increased stability (mean residual posterior drawer 8 mm at 70  ° and 20 lb force) and improved knee function (33 % IKDC B, 67 % IKDC C).
Presently, surgical treatment of chronic posterior knee instability should be restricted to centers devoted to this problem.
This article reviews the current state of consensus reached for the diagnosis of myocarditis and dilated cardiomyopathy on the basis of conventional histopathological and immunohistochemical methods for inflammatory infiltrates in addition to molecular biological methods for persistence of viral genome in endomyocardial biopsies.
Health policy in Germany has in recent years given priority to the self-administration of physicians, sickness funds, and hospital associations.
Hence, legal regulations on quality assurance have focused on defining responsibilities and areas of primary importance, while precise processes are being defined by the self-administration.
As prices for health care are increasingly restricted by lump sum payments, quality and quality assurance become more important as a factor in competition between health care providers.
To support the implementation of quality assurance in the health care system, the German Federal Ministry of Health has funded model-projects, e.g., to support the adaptation of successful strategies of total quality management for health care.
The research field of tissue engineering combines cells biology, biomaterial science, and surgery.
Major long-term goals are tissue and organ replacement therapies using the patients' own cells.
Our work is focused on the treatment of severe joint defects and on plastic surgery using in vitro engineered cartilage tissues.
The practical approaches in cartilage engineering face problems with three-dimensional cell distribution or cell immobilization raising biocompatibility problems.
The tissue engineering of cartilage is based on combining biocompatible cell embedding substances such as fibrin, agarose, alginate, hyaluronic acid and fiber fleece scaffolds of poly -hydroxy acids (PLLA/PGLA).
Different technical approaches were established: a) three-dimensional in vitro cultures of chondrocytes for the development of vital tissue transplants and b) interacting three-dimensional cultures consisting of different cell populations, such as BMP-transfected mesenchymal cells.
The preshaped artificial tissue constructs were cultured in perfusion chambers to maintain a stable diffusion of nutrients during the in vitro pre-formation step.
Subsequently, pre-formed tissues were implanted into nude mice and into 4mm articular joint defects of rabbits.
Transplants were found to produce cartilage typic morphological patterns and matrix.
80% of the transplants remained stable in vivo.
However, 20% of the tissues are resorbed or replaced by a fibrous tissue.
These results demonstrate that current artificial cartilage transplants are already feasible for plastic reconstruction.
The treatment of severe joint defects, however, faces additional problems which are addressed in ongoing studies: (a) the fixation of engineered cartilage in joints, (b) the protection against chronic inflammatory degradation, and (c) the required enormous mechanical stability.
Background: Silicon-rubber central venous catheters have become commonplace in the care of premature infants.
We report on a rare complication, fracture and cardiac embolization of a silicone-rubber catheter and its interventional retrieval.
The ARO multicenter study intended to show clinical and radiological differences with regard to different systems of fixation and designs of the prothesis in total hip replacement in patients with hip dysplasia, osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis.
In 1987 and 1988 5255 total hip prothesis were implanted by the 24 hospitals which took part in the study.
3133 prothesis (95,6 %) were clinically and radiologically examined.
The follow-up period averaged 6.9 years.
The results of the Aro multicenter-study showed that despite difficult preoperative conditions especially in cases of rheumatoid arthritis the satisfaction rate improved remarkably.
During the operation less complications arose in comparison to patients with hip dysplasia and osteoarthritis.
Regarding the rate of infection after operation there were no differences between the 3 groups.
Only the rate of postoperative luxation concerning rheumatoid patients turned out to be twice the number of the others.
In our opinion this is due to the fact that these rheumatics were operated by posterior approach.
Patients with rheumatoid arthritis were satisfied most with their surgeries.
Results of rheumatic patients according to Harris hip score were slightly worse than the results of the two other groups.
This was due to systemic involvement and bad preoperative function of the hip.
As a result of the study there were no differences in using cemented or cementless techniques for rheumatic hip replacement.
The decision for the method of fixation should depend on the patient's ability to relief the prothesis after operation.
The study has shown that cementless implantation can also be used for young rheumatics provided that a suitable design of prothesis will be selected.
Sepsis developing on the basis of a postoperative infection is a rare, but life-threatening event.
Early diagnosis of postoperative complications usually facilitates decisive intervention and a favorable prognosis.
If the right moment is missed, endothelial damage leads to the release of inflammatory mediators and generalized systemic infection (SIRS).
For the subsequentially developing septic shock, often combined with multiple organ failure (MOF), it is not important whether the starting point was an uncontrollable infections focus, ischemic damage following hypovolemic shock, or massive bacterial translocation with postoperative bowel obstruction.
The collapse of the immune system results in immune paralysis and explains the inability of the organism to defend itself against systemic infections.
For early recognition of the developing septic complication and its effective treatment, pathophysiological and clinical issues are discussed.
The comparison of prediction of mortality and sepsis by different score systems was the objective of this retrospective study in 51 patients.
Specific scores for burned patients - "Abbreviated Burn Severity Index" (ABSI) and the "Baltimore Sepsis Scale" (BSS) were compared with the general intensive score systems: "Mortality Prediction Model" (MPM II), "Simplified Acute Physiology Score" (SAPS II), APACHE II (ApII), "Hannover Intensive Score" (HIS) and the sepsis score developed by Elebute and Stoner (ES).
On days 1 and 3 the true-positive ratio (sensitivity) was plotted against false-positive ratio (1-specifity) for each score.
The area under the curve (max.
0.5) correlates with the quality of the score system.
We also tested the discrimination of septic and nonseptic patients by using the different scores.
Bilateral symmetric changes in the cerebral hemispheric white matter are found with increasing frequency using CT and MRI techniques.
These unspecific canges of the white matter signal are often called leukoaraiosis.
They differ from the normal white matter signal.
These changes are found with increasing frequency in persons older than 60 years and also patients with dementia and cerebrovascular diseases.
The pathogenesis, clinical significance and morphological substrate are unclear.
The aim of this review is to summarise the actual knowledge about the etiology and clinical signs and symptoms found in patients with leukoaraiosis.
This term should not be used when white matter changes are found in patients younger than 35 years, with an unilateral onset, asymmetric distribution, and extensive changes all over the infra- and supratentorial white matter area.
Neuroradiological and clinical criteria are given to differentiate between leukoaraiosis and diseases of the white matter, especially enlarged Virchow-Robin spaces, lacunar infarction, subcortical arteriosclerotic angiopathy (Binswanger's disease), leukoencephalopathy of different origin, and demyelinating diseases.
A case with various skeletal abnormalities, soft tissue masses and skin lesions diagnosed as Proteus syndrome is reported.
Proteus syndrome is included in the differential diagnosis of many disorders, because of the polymorphous nature of its clinical manifestations.
It is a rare disorder and leads to functional disabilities as well as cosmetic and psychological problems.
Early diagnosis and careful follow-up with appropriate surgical interventions is important in preventing long-term complications.
The value of elective PTA in stenoses of the supraaortic vessels and especially of the carotid artery is still under discussion.
Stenoses after surgical and/or radiation therapy and a high cardio-vascular risk for a surgical procedure, however, justify minimal-invasive techniques.
Profiles of fundamental frequency sound pressure levels and voice duration are measured separately in clinical practice.
It was the aim of the present study to combine the two examinations, in order to estimate the relationship between pitch, sound pressure level and voice duration and to develop a new computer-assisted graph.
A three-dimensional (3D) wireframe phonogram was constructed based on SPL profiles to obtain a general view of the parameters recorded.
We have termed this "phonetography".
Variable further projections were selected for the analysis of different aspects of parametric relationships.
The results in 21 healthy volunteers and 4 patients with hyperfunctional dysphonias demonstrated that there were three typical figures of the 3D phonograms produced, depending on the relationship between voice duration when soft ("piano") compared to loud ("forte").
In one-third of the healthy volunteers, the values of the piano voice duration were greater than those of forte for almost all pitches examined.
In two-thirds of the healthy subjects the values of forte voice duration were partly greater, as were those of piano voice duration.
All of the patients showed voice duration values greater for forte than for piano.
The results of the study demonstrate that the 3D phonogram is a useful tool for obtaining new insights into various relationships of voice parameters.
Sinus histiocytosis is as a rule a benign disease of lymph nodes, infiltrated by large histiocytes.
These cells show typical cytophagocytosis, particularly lymphophagocytosis.
Other organs may be also involved by this disease, often including the skin.
Exclusive cutaneous sinus histiocytosis without infiltration of lymph nodes seems to be very rare.
To exclude other non-X histiocytoses or histiocytosis-X, it is advisable to use immunohistochemistry.
We report on a patient with sinus histiocytosis and discuss the problems of differential diagnosis.
The case of a five-year-old girl with intractable fluor vaginalis and recurrent perianal fistulas is reported.
A presacral dermoid cyst was shown to be the cause of these symptoms.
Extensive radiological investigation revealed the cyst and the associated fistulas extending into the perianal region and the vagina.
After verification of the anatomical situation, an uneventful surgical procedure was carried out.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a noninvasive functional method for the study of solid tumor perfusion, metabolism and interaction with different therapeutic agents.
The aim of the study was the investigation of the metabolism of hepatocellular carcinomas (HCC) and the kinetics during a treatment with intratumoral ethanol by PET.
The ongoing study includes seven patients with child A cirrhosis and HCC (UICC stage III-IVA; tumor size 3-6 cm).
Dynamic PET studies (60 min) with 18F-fluordeoxyglucose (FDG) were performed prior to therapy to assess tumor viability.
The evaluation of the FDG data demonstrated a liver-equivalent uptake in six of the tumors (well and moderately differentiated HCC), which were poorly delineated against the normal liver parenchyma.
One moderately differentiated HCC showed an increased FDG metabolism, indicating no correlation between histology and metabolism.
A dose of 37-80 MBq 11C-ethanol was applied together with a nonlabelled therapeutic dose of the drug via a puncture needle positioned under sonography.
Five out of seven tumors demonstrated a high 11C uptake shortly after the end of the ethanol injection followed by constant 11C-ethanol concentration during the whole study period of 45 min.
The PET data demonstrated no significant elimination of the 11C-ethanol from the tumor and no accumulation in the surrounding liver tissue.
One case showed a decrease of the intratumoral 11C-ethanol concentration due to a punkture of a tumor vein, and in another case the surrounding liver parenchyma demonstrated significant 11C uptake in the early phase following paratumoral injection of the drug.
In conclusion, PET is a useful tool for the study of the mechanism and the kinetics of percutaneous intratumoral ethanol injection of HCC.
During the last decade, many investigations were conducted in order to understand the mechanisms involved in the development of acute lung injury (ALI) or acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS).
However, the increasing knowledge, instead of clarification, leads us to realize that these terms may assemble a wide variety of lung pathologies.
Indeed, many circumstances can result in these syndromes and no particular factor has been defined to distinguish ARDS of one etiology from another.
We are still ignorant about which factors lead to the extended inflammation from pneumonia to ARDS, while it is not clear whether the timing of events are determined by some mediators.
Furthermore, in the clinical arena, there is no clear distinction between pneumonia, severe pneumonia which may lead to ALI and then ARDS.
Finally, the results of all these studies should have allowed us to investigate new therapeutical approaches while none seems to emerge.
This review is an analysis by an ICU clinician of the different points of view of these syndromes and intends to give a global vision of the numerous factors implied, emphasizing the complex interactions between them.
The present state about new potential treatments directed on mediators is summarized.
The aim of the study was to evaluate if a combined physiologic-therapeutic scoring system (MARIS = Marburger Intensive Score) offers better outcome prediction compared to scoring systems, which are based either only physiologically (APACHE II = Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II) or only therapeutically (TISS = Therapeutic Intervention Scoring System) in medical intensive care medicine.
Main outcome parameters employed were hospital mortality, severity of disease classification and length of hospital stay.
During a 12-months period (1993/94), 531 consecutive patients (ICU stay >4 hours) being admitted to a medical ICU of a tertiary care university hospital were prospectively investigated.
The day-1-scores of MARIS, APACHE II, and TISS were determined and the patients were followed until hospital discharge or death.
There was no advantage in using the combined scoring system (MARIS) neither in discrimination between survival and non-survival (hospital mortality; areas under the ROC-curve: MARIS = 0.84, APACHE II = 0.86, TISS = 0.78) nor in severity classification (relationship between day-1-scores and hospital mortality: p<0.001 (chi2-Test) in all three systems).
In contrast only for the combined system (MARIS), a dependence of length of hospital stay from day-1-scores in the analysis of survivors only and in the analysis of all patients (survivors and non-survivors) (p<0.001; ANOVA) could be demonstrated.
In conclusion the combined physiologic-therapeutic scoring system (MARIS) did not offer a better outcome prediction concerning hospital mortality and severity classification compared to the established systems in critically ill patients.
Its use may be advantageous in evaluating the relationship between day-1-scores and length of hospital stay, which for economical reasons has become a parameter of growing interest in intensive care medicine.
A 23 month old boy was admitted to hospital because of anemia, mainly truncal rash and unclear pain.
Previously he had shown fever, conjunctivitis and desquamations of hands and feet.
Laboratory findings were moderate leucocytosis, thrombocytosis, anemia, and an elevation of ESR and gamma-globulins.
No bacterial infection was found.
The ECG showed signs of a myocardial ischemia.
The sonography of the heart detected an aneurysm of the left coronary artery.
The boy died of a sudden cardiac arrest.
The autopsy verified the diagnosis of Kawasaki-syndrome and revealed two coronary aneurysms blocked by thrombosis and a necrotic panarteriitis.
The etiology of the painful hip in children is widespread.
In this paper, predominants cases without previous trauma are discussed in detail.
Depending on age, history, clinical picture and laboratory results, an imaging diagnostic algorithm is presented, which should avoid unnecessary tests and lead to the necessary therapeutic measure.
Several common as well as uncommon clinical entities are illustrated by representative examples.
The present study exemplifies the method of quantitative reverse transcriptase - polymerase chain reaction (cRT-PCR) by quantifying, in bovine tissues, the specific mRNAs for the two key proteins which regulate cellular cholesterol metabolism, the low density lipoprotein (LDL) -receptor and the 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-Coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase.
Our data reveal a broad range of expression for both mRNAs.
The LDL-receptor mRNA expression was highest in the adrenal gland (6.7 x 104 molecules/ug cellular RNA) followed by the corpus luteum of the ovary, intermediate in the liver (8.6 x 102 molecules/ug cellular RNA) and not detectable in the large intestine.
Expression of the HMG-CoA reductase almost paralleled LDL-receptor values.
It was found to be highest in the ovary (6.1 x 106 molecules/ug cellular RNA) followed by the adrenal gland, intermediate in the liver (3.1 x 105 molecules/ug cellular RNA) and lowest in the large intestine (9.9 x 104 molecules/ug cellular RNA).
These data are consistent with other reports concerning the quantitative analysis of the expression of both proteins as determined by other experimental approaches.
Thus cRT-PCR is a valuable tool for the quantitative analysis of the LDL-receptor and the HMG-CoA reductase.
Spinal opioids are effective analgesics for surgical and non-surgical pain.
Central and systemic side effects are less frequent than with epidural local anaesthetics or parenteral opioids.
This review focuses on the analgesic efficacy of spinal opioids and their combination with local anaesthetics for postoperative analgesia, including patient-controlled epidural analgesia.
Intrathecal administration of opioids has some advantages over their administration by the epidural route.
Several factors may influence selection of the opioid; however, in most situations morphine is the drug of choice.
Thoracic epidural administration of opioids seems to have no clinically important advantages over the lumbar route in terms of quality of analgesia, adverse effects, doses required or pulmonary function.
However, evidence suggesting that effective postoperative analgesia can significantly improve postoperative morbidity in patients at risk is accumulating.
In such patients, combined use of epidural local anaesthetics and opioids may become the technique of choice for postoperative analgesia.
However, there is no evidence that this would have any clinically relevant benefit in low-risk patients.
This contribution summarizes a discussion of several experts on the field of clinical nutrition, which was held in Evangelische Akademie Loccum, Germany, May 20-21, 1998.
Nutrition can be considered a medical treatment, which justifies assessment of benefits according to outcome parameters.
With regard to nutritional support of the cancer patient, evaluation of quality of life (QL) is more appropriate than morbidity and survival related parameters.
Quality of life is a multidimensional construct which can be measured by standardized questionnaires.
The QL Questionnaire (QLQ-C30) of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), is an established and validated instrument which provides reliable information with regard to disease-related limitations of QL.
The measurement of QL can be extended by appropriate modules for specific problems according to the underlying cancer disease and special therapies (e.g., percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy).
In the individual case, the interpretation of the role of nutritional parameters for QL may be confounded by other parameters, such as disease or personal changes.
However, the information supports decision making about the indication, the route of nutritional therapy, as well as individual follow-up.
Using QL as an outcome parameter, carefully designed prospective trials might be feasible in order to investigate the outcome of nutritional therapy in patients with advanced cancer.
The inclusion of a control group is questionable from the ethical viewpoint.
The treatment of distal fractures of the lower arm can be conservative or operative.
The immediate aims of any treatment are anatomical realignment and the avoidance of trophic impairments, with the ultimate objective of unrestricted function of the hand and wrist.
A graduated treatment scheme based on the ASIF classification is necessary to do justice to the different forms of fracture that can occur.
The majority of injuries can still be successfully treated by conservative means; operative treatment becomes more important when there are signs of unusually high levels of instability or joint involvement.
The authors' own patient population is presented in this paper: in these patients fixation with Kirschner wires has proved to be the most successful of the operative procedures used, followed by palmar plate fixation with or without cancellous bone plasty, and for C-type fractures according to the ASIF classification or when there is severe soft-tissue damage, application of a fixateur externe spanning the joint has proved best.
Treatment strategy, risks, complications and results are presented.
Many couples have to cope with periods of involuntary childlessness and they often ask for medical help.
In the Heidelberg Project of involuntary childlessness in men, andrological patients were surveyed from the time before diagnosis till the end of 1 year's andrological treatment.
Cardiac complications remain an important cause of perioperative morbidity and mortality with noncardiac surgery, despite improvement in surgical techniques and anaesthetic management.
Therefore preoperative cardiovascular risk assessment plays a pivotal role in management of patients prior to noncardiac surgery.
Thorough history-taking and careful examination are essential to consider further diagnostic steps in order to predict the patient's individual perioperative cardiac risk as accurately as possible.
Besides elaboration of medical therapy, cardiac catherization and even balloon angioplasty or bypass surgery must be considered if indicated by preoperative cardiac testing.
According to the literature, chronic ankle instability occurs after acute rupture of the lateral ankle ligaments in 10-20 % of the cases.
The etiology of the instability are ligamentous damage and functional neuromuscular disorder of the peroneal muscles.
The standards of diagnostics are the history with the frequency of inversion trauma per period and the interval from the primary trauma, the clinical examination and radiological stress tests.
Newer diagnostic methods, up to now not well established in clinical routine, include stabilometry, cybex-measurements of the pronator muscles, the evaluation of peroneal reaction time on a tilting platform and dynamic pedography.
Conservative management of chronic ankle instability consists of wearing ankle braces and rehabilitation programs concerned with peroneal muscle strengthening and coordination training.
The indication for surgical reconstruction of the ankle ligaments are a well-documented mechanical instability with the neuromuscular reflexes intact and a failed physiotherapeutic training program.
The surgical procedure should be selected according to a priority list: 1. anatomical repair, eventually augmented with periosteum from the fibula, 2.
Watson-Jones tenodesis, and 3.
Chrisman-Snook tenodesis to treat a concomittant subtalar instability.
No other disease has exhibited such a significant influence on the behaviour of health care workers (HCW) as the AIDS pandemic.
Numerous epidemiological data, however, have proven that the overall risk of transmission of the human deficiency virus (HIV) during surgical interventions is low; it is 0.3 % for all types of percutaneous exposures.
Nevertheless, there still is a need for wider adoption of safer surgical techniques to reduce the chances of HIV transmission in the operation theatre, which additionally minimize the risk of transmission of other blood-borne pathogens.
In the case of occupational exposure to HIV-contaminated blood or body secretions post-exposure prophylaxis should be recommended stratified by the type of exposure and source material.
Abstract   Pachyonychia congenita (PC) comprises a heterogeneous group of autosomal dominantly inherited conditions showing characteristic nail thickening and associated signs such as palmoplantar keratoderma, follicular keratoses, and mucosal leukokeratoses.
Less frequently epidermal cysts, hairshaft abnormalities, natal teeth and laryngeal involvement may be seen.
Phenotypically and genetically two major forms of PC are recognized, pachyonychia congenita Jadassohn- Lewandowsky/PC type I (Medelian inheritance in man - MIM - 167200) and pachyonychia congenita Jackson-Lawler/PC type II (MIM 167210).
Both conditions show nail deformities, focal palmoplantar keratoderma, and follicular hyperkeratoses.
Diagnostically relevant are leukokeratoses of the oral mucosa in patients with PC type I.
In contrast individuals affected with PC type II show premature dentition and multiple pilosebaceous cysts predominantely affecting the upper trunk.
The latter closely resemble eruptive vellus hair cysts and steatocystoma multiplex.
By mutational analysis keratin K6a and K16 gene mutations have been detected in patients with PC type I, and keratin K6b and K17 gene mutations have been shown to be the underlying genetic defect in patients with PC type II.
We investigated the incidence of postoperative chest tube bleeding, administration of blood products, and changes in coagulation tests in patients with diltiazem (DIL) administration for reduction of myocardial ischemic episodes during elective CABG.
We retrospectively analyzed the surgical and ICU records of CABG patients who had recieved DIL (27 pats.)
or nitroglycerin (NTG; 26 pats.)
or a combination thereof (COM; 25 pats.).
Data investigated included the amount of postoperative chest tube bleeding (CTB), frequency of administration of packed red blood cells (RBC) and fresh frozen plasma (FFP), and changes in hemoglobin (Hb), thrombocyte (Th) levels as well as changes in prothrombin- (PT) and partial thromboplastine time (PTT).
There were no significant differences among the three groups with regard to biometrical or operative data.
The amount of CTB as well as the use of RBC and FFP were not significantly different between the groups.
Also, there were no significant differences with regard to Hb or Th and PT or PTT, both in the early phase after the operation in ICU as well as after 24 hours in the ICU.
The perioperative administration of the calcium entery blocker DIL reduces the incidence of myocardial ischemia during CABG surgery.
This administration during CABG surgery does not increase the risk of postoperative bleeding.
As compared to NTG, DIL does not have negative effects on Hb and Th levels or the commonly used coagulation parameters in the first 24 hours in the ICU after CABG surgery.
Depression and fibromyalgia (FM) share common symptoms, indicating a close relationship between both disorders.
FM patients frequently present symptoms of major depression.
Genetic epidemiological studies show that genetic transmission is one important component.
Molecular genetic studies are on the way; the serotonin transporter promoter gene seems to be associated with neurotic anxiety and FM.
Biochemical studies related to the serotonin and norepinephrine neurotransmission are disturbed in both disorders.
This view is supported by the response to treatment with antidepressants.
At our hospital, closed dislocations of the elbow without neurovascular or osseous lesion are treated conservatively after successful reduction in the absence of a tendency to redislocation.
Indications for surgery are irreducible dislocations and those with a tendency to redislocation as well as open soft tissue injuries, neurovascular and osseous concomitant injuries.
During a period of 10 years 113 patients were treated according to this strategy.
Of these patients, 46 had simple dislocations of the elbow and 67 suffered from dislocations with osseous lesions.
In 95 patients follow-ups could be performed after a mean period of 55 months.
In more than 75 % of cases good or excellent functional results were documented; unfavourable results were seen only in patients with osseous lesions.
Nearly all of the patients had a stable elbow joint at the end of therapy.
The present study investigated the frequency and influencing factors of petechial bleeding (PET) in the conjunctivae and eyelids in different causes of death except strangulation.
In a series of 473 autopsies the over all occurrence of PET was 13.3%.
The highest frequencies were found in fire victims (31%), persons who had died after intensive care (24%), cardiac death (22%), drowning and intoxication (16% each).
The frequency of PET decreased with increasing age and increased with the body mass.
At first sight cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) seemed to influence the occurrence of PET, because the rate was 11% without and 19% with CPR (x2: p < 0.05); an aspect which has been mentioned in the literature.
However, further analysis showed that a higher rate of PET could only be observed in causes of death where PET are often fround irrespective of CPR, whereas in the other groups PET (with or without CPR) are uncommon.
Furthermore, a case-by-case analysis showed that in several cases with PET after CPR the causes could clearly be attributed to conditions other than CPR.
In a second series of autopsy cases with only cardiac deaths (181 cases), the influence of age and body mass on the rate of PET was statistically significant and there was a tendency for more frequent PET with increasing heart weight.
On the other hand, no statistically significant influence of CPR on the rate of PET could be found in this relatively homogeneous group.
Media reports convey the impression that the incidence of fatal accidents in the European Alps has been increasing yearly at an alarming rate.
Although objective data is lacking, the annual reports of the mountain rescue services in Germany, Austria, the southern Tirol, Switzerland and the Chamonix region in France were analysed with respect to the fatal and non-fatal accidents which occurred between 1987 and 1997.
Because of varying definitions of "mountain accident" used in these countries, available data about the number of fatalities are not comparable.
A 75-year-old man had painless, slowly enlarging tumors in the right and left infrascapular regions.
Clinically, the tumors were nontender and semimobile.
MR imaging and the operative exploration revealed tumors infiltrating the lateral thoracic muscles and periost of the scapula and underlying ribs.
At surgery, the tumors were thought to be malignant, most likely liposarcomas.
The histological examination showed the characteristic appearance of elastofibromas with spindle-shaped fibroblasts, which were separated by thick eosinophilic collagenous and elastic fibers.
Elastofibromas are benign mesenchymal soft-tissue lesions that mainly affect elderly women.
In 10 % of the patients bilateral, often asynchronous tumors are seen.
Ninety-nine percent of the lesions are located in the subscapular region.
Occasional elastofibromas have been described in the extremities, head, and in the abdominal and thoracic cavities.
The relative success of thrombolytic versus surgical therapy of thrombus in transit has not yet been evaluated in clinical studies.
Only case reports of one or more patients exist.
Optimal therapy, therefore, remains controversial, and conclusive recommendations in favor of one choice of therapy over the other cannot be given.
Nevertheless, in current practice thrombolysis as a noninvasive and quickly available form of therapy is preferred, if no contraindications exist.
Two cases are presented together with a literature review.
The Comèl-Netherton syndrome is a rare autosomal recessive hereditary disease.
A 23-year old female presented with the classical triad of ichthyosis linearis circumflexa, trichorrhexis invaginata with bamboo hairs of up to 12 cm length and atopic diathesis.
Nevertheless, more than 20 years passed before the final diagnosis was established.
In addition, the patient was slightly mentally retarded and suffered from a genital papillomatosis, minimal hypergammaglobulinaemia and a marked bilateral eyelid ectropion, more severe than previously reported.
Oral therapy with Acitretin was quite successful.
Background: Recent studies have shown the usefulness of pars plana vitrectomy with the use of growth factors in the treatment of macular holes.
Autologous platelet concentrates contain many growth factors to stimulate glial wound healing.
In vitro fertilisation IVF and intrazytoplasmic sperm injection ICSI are the most commonly used methods of assisted reproduction.
Whereas classic indications for both treatment options are widely accepted, for example severe tubal damage which cannot be microsurgically repaired, cryptozoospermia, severe OAT syndrome and repeated failure of fertilisation in normal IVF, ICSI might be indicated in a wider range of indications as well.
In this paper a number of additional ICSI indications are defined, for example minor forms of andrological subfertility, reinsemination of nonfertilised oocytes on the day after conventional IVF, reduced motility of cryopreserved sperms, reduced quality of oocytes or ICSI after one cycle of unexplained fertilisation failure in IVF.
Load on the human body can be influenced by shoes and surfaces which is important both in sports and rehabilitation.
The loading which can primarily be influenced are impact situations and friction as well as the stability of the foot.
This stability is of main interest in the prevention of pain and injury.
However, a certain amount of loading is necessary to improve strength and structure of biological materials.
In the past, the development of shoe and surface materials has hardly been perceived under this aspect, but may be increasingly important in the future.
With optimal clinical management of patients with Marfan syndrome, life expectancy may be improved substantially from 32 years to a nearly normal life span.
Cornerstones of clinical management comprise genetic counseling, life-style management, and cardiovascular surveillance, which includes regular aortic imaging and endocarditis prophylaxis.
Prophylactic use of beta-blocking agents as well as timing of elective surgery and the choice of the optimal surgical technique are difficult issues that obviously need to be individualized.
Juvenile or postoperative patients as well as pregnant patients with Marfan syndrome pose particular problems.
This review intends both to facilitate differential decision making based on referenced evidence and to provide guidelines for therapeutic strategies.
Finally, a review of the most recent advantages to somatic gene therapy is given.
In different animal investigations Pyrost demonstrated osteoconductive and osteostimulative effects.
In ectopic tissues and especially in conditions of low osteogenetic potency, the combination of Pyrost and autogenic bone marrow effects bone formation.
In Germany, good clinical multicenter studies that are not supported by pharmaceutical companies are rarely performed.
Good supranational industry-sponsored studies are usually aimed at the registration of new (expensive) drugs.
The preconditions for co-operation in conducting industry-independent studies which are of interest for the scientific community have been improved substantially in Germany by instituting the working group of co-operating arthritis centers, the so-called core documentation where 32000 patients with rheumatic conditions were documented in 1997 and the institution of a sophisticated information system ("RheumaNet").
The executive board of the German Rheumatology Association has set up an "ad hoc commission" that agreed to institute a "Committee for the Coordination of Clinical Studies in Rheumatic Diseases".
In this committee rheumatologists subspecialized from medicine, orthopedic, pediatrics working in universities, hospitals and private practice as well as specialists in statistics and epidemiology shall be represented.
In principle this committee is independent of the co-operating arthritis centers and the RheumaNet.
All members of the German Rheumatology Association are invited to cooperate with this committee by contributing to the clinically important questions and participating in clinical studies.
The committee has to define key questions in rheumatology and shall plan and organize multicenter studies to answer these questions.
In addition, study protocols of pharmaceutical companies may be examined as to their importance, quality, and feasibility.
Abnormal uterine bleeding is a gynecological problem frequently seen in women from adolescence to the postmenopausal period.
Nearly 70% of patients' visits to the gynecologist in the peri- and postmenopausal period are due to abnormal uterine bleeding.
According to the "speed"-hypothesis of cognitive development, the slowing of information processing in old age is at the core of negative age differences in psychometric intelligence.
The present study investigates the "speed"-hypothesis for fluid intelligence at the individual level using Latent Growth Curve Methodology.
Date on 4 measurement points come from the Bonn Longitudinal Study of aging (N=128, mean age 67.2, 53% women).
Based on principal factor analysis, markers of mental speed were the WAIS Digit Symbol Test and simple psychomotor task.
As indicators of fluid intelligence the WAIS Object Assembly and Block Design were used.
After separately fitting Latent Growth Curve Models for the trajectory of mental speed and fluid intelligence, a combined model showed no statistically significant improvement of fit for freeing the covariance between the two slope-factors.
Interpreting this result, contrary to the "speed"-hypothesis the intraindividual change of fluid intelligence does not relate to the according change of mental speed.
For patients with dilative cardiomyopathy (DCM), the prognosis is highly unfavorable, even under conditions of optimal medication.
At present, there is no option for causal therapy.
Since there is increasing evidence that modifications of the immune system accompanied by the production of autoantibodies, e.g., against 1 ad-renergic or muscarinergic receptors, are involved in the pathogenesis of DCM, the elucidation of the possible functional significance of these autoantibodies has attracted increasing interest.
In addition to the role of autoantibodies as markers for an autoimmune process, discussion of the possible pathogenetic mechanisms has centered on direct toxicity as well as on negative influencing of myocardial contractility and energy metabolism.
The effects gained through removal of autoantibodies by immunoadsorption therapy for DCM patients sheds light on the functional importance of autoantibodies in this syndrome.
The principle of this form of therapy is based on the binding of circulating antibodies to sepharose columns, to which polyclonal antibodies against human immunoglobulin are linked.
A pilot study conducted among DCM patients disclosed that immunadsorption took place in simultaneous conjunction with a reduction in the immunoglobulin level and with significant hemodynamic and clinical improvement.
These results may be interpreted as indicating that autoantibodies play an active role in DCM and that their removal by immunadsorption possibly represents a highly promising future therapeutic concept.
Active unspecific immunotherapy in an adjuvant or palliative setting has been shown to enhance survival in melanoma patients, and gene therapy now offers new perspectives for active specific immunotherapy.
Gene therapy includes the transfer of genetic material performed by either viral or non-viral methods and in vivo or ex vivo.
For melanoma the following approaches are suggested: vaccination with tumour-specific, HLA-associated antigens using peptides or `naked DNA', vaccination with melanoma cells transfected with cytokine genes or B7, adoptive immunotherapy with specific T-lymphocytes or transfected tumour-infiltrating lymphocytes, or transfection of tumour cells with a tumour suppressor gene whose dysfunction plays a crucial role in melanoma.
Since 1995, a total of 115 patients with pseudarthrosis or delayed bone fracture healing have each undergone a single session of shock wave treatment.
After the treatment the fractures were correctly set according to the rules of conservative bone fracture treatment.
The mean follow-up period for all patients was 31 months (range 3-50 months.
In 87 cases (75.7%) bony consolidation was achieved with simultaneous reduction in the symptoms.
Apart from low-grade local reactions (swelling, haematoma, petechiae) no complications were observed.
The treatment is noninvasive and requires little investment in terms of personnel or technology.
Extracorporeal shock wave therapy should therefore be considered before an elaborate operative procedure is initiated in the treatment of pseudarthrosis and of delayed fracture healing.
The sound transmission properties of three different commercially available middle ear implants and the prototype of a complete middle ear prosthesis (CoMEP) were evaluated with a special measurement system that permits standardized conditions.
This system uses a mechanical middle ear model (MMM) which approximates the impedances of the tympanic membrane and inner ear.
The implants were fitted under defined conditions into the MMM.
Displacement of the artificial stapes footplate of the MMM was measured with an optical probe.
The measurements of different middle ear prostheses showed that the mass of the implant was the most important factor for optimum high frequency transmission.
The lightest implant (4 mg, titanium) showed the best results.
The CoMEP revealed the highest sensitivity because of a slight enlargement of the diameter of the artificial tympanic membrane.
These findings show that the CoMEP is able to restore sound transmission to a normal range.
In a second experiment one of the implants was fitted into the MMM with different forces.
The increase of stiffness produced a slightly better high frequency transmission at the expense of low frequency sensitivity.
Hence, the fitting of the implant may not be too stiff because of its loss of mobility within a significant frequency range.
Angiomyolipomas are hamartomas that may be found sporadically or associated with tuberous sclerosis (M. Bourneville-Pringle).
Clinically, this long-term asymptomatic tumor becomes evident as an acute retroperitoneal hemorrhage or by symptoms of a flank mass.
Due to the high percentage of fat components in this tumor type, computed tomography is far superior to other radiological procedures.
In view of two of our own case reports, the therapeutic strategies are discussed, paying regard to the actual literature in this field.
The excact pathogenesis of Peyronie's Disease (PD) is still unknown.
Histopathological investigations suggest, that the metabolism of the collogenious tissue plays an important role.
Therefore, we started a prospective study in order to evaluate the metabolic situation of 11 patients with PD and 11 healthy controls.
We mesured biochemical parameters of penile and venous blood, wich correspond to the collagen metabolism (procollagen III [P III P], PMN-elastase [PMN-E], fibronectin [FN], fibronectinreceptor [FN-R] und -1-proteinase-inhibitor [-1-PI]).
There was no difference in PMN-E, P III P, FN and FN-R in all samples.
There was no difference in penile and venous blood as well.
But we found out a highly significant lower concentration of -1-PI in patients with PD (158,55 mg/dl) than in controls (214,82 mg/dl).
Closed rupture of the anterior tibial tendon is rare.
Fewer than 50 cases have been reported in the literature, perhaps because the symptoms are often neglected by the patient as well as by the doctor.
Most often the rupture occurs as a consequence of a sudden plantar flexion of the ankle and pre-existing degenerative changes of the tendon tissue due to systemic disease or iatrogenic local corticoid injections.
Clinically, the tendon rupture presents as acute weakness of the ankle extensors without reddening, swelling or neurological signs.
Differential diagnoses such as anterior tibial syndrome and peroneal nerve palsy can thus be excluded.
During the clinical examination the distal stump and the discontinuity of the anterior tibial tendon are often palpable.
The clinical diagnosis can be confirmed by an ultrasound examination.
An operation may be undertaken up to 3 months after the injury.
Preferred procedures are end-to-end anastomosis and transosseous refixation of the tendon, followed by a plaster cast for 6 weeks postoperatively.
High-risk patients can be treated conservatively, but the functional results are less satisfactory.
We describe a case of an acute closed rupture of the anterior tibial tendon.
A yet unpublished method of osseous reinsertion of the tendon is presented.
In this four-part review article, an update of Psychological Gerontology since 1988 in German speaking countries is given.
Part II of this review focuses an personality development in old age.
In accordance with their current relevance within research on personality development, concepts and empirical studies concerned with coping, psychological resilience and development regulation in old age are addressed in the first part of this review (contributions to basic research).
First, research based on the two-process-model of coping, the personality theory of Thomae and the life-span theory of control is summarized.
Next, work on subjective well-being, self and self-regulation are highlighted.
In the second part of the review (contribution to applied research), an overview of the scope of potential of psychotherapeutic intervention in old age is given.
Background: According to literature, 30-60 % of pacemaker patients suffer from paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF).
As rapid tracking of PAF may cause severe symptoms in patients with dual chamber pacemakers, refined algorithms providing AV synchronous pacing during periods of sinus rhythm and preventing high ventricular rates during PAF are highly desirable.
Aim and method: This comprehensive paper introduces a new mode switching (MS) algorithm which uses either a fixed (Inos2CLS) or programmable (Logos) number of short intervals out of 8 consecutive atrial intervals to detect PAF.
If the MS criterion is fulfilled, a switch from AV synchronous pacing to nontracking mode is automatically performed.
The algorithm is described together with a discussion on optimization of the programming of parameters which may indirectly influence the MS sensitivity and specificity.
Results: This MS concept maintains the high sensitivity and fast reactivity towards PAF of the "mode conversion" in Actros and Kairos pacemaker systems, preventing a long time delay between onset of PAF, detection of the arrhythmia, and switch to nontracking mode.
In addition, adequeate sensing and short blanking periods in the new MS concept enable reliable MS.
The occurrence of atrial oversensing should be tested, as it may lead to inappropriate MS. Programmability of the MS algorithm may be advantageous for individual programming with respect to the patients' arrhythmia rate and atrial sensing performance, but the use of very restrictive or very liberal criteria should be avoided as both may lead to mode oscillations.
Finally, examples of stored diagnostic data are presented to assess MS reliability, identify possible problems, and optimize MS function during follow-up.
Purpose: To evaluate MR imaging at 1.5 Tesla in patients suffering from acute subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) using proton-density weighted (PDW) fast spin echo (FSE) and fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) sequences.
A number of infectious agents has been newly detected in the last 10 years.
Climatic hanges and migration have been the most important factors in the emergence of new and old infections.
Additionally, new methods for the detection of DNA and RNA have played an important role in the detection of agents difficult to culture.
So far medical requirements for aviators have been defined by national licensing authorities.
For a long while ophthalmological problems, insufficiencies in vision, refraction or color vision, have been responsible for approximately 50 % of rejection of applicants for medical reasons.
Introduction: Coronary arterty disease still remains the primary cause of death in the western industrialized world.
Although the clinical value of selective coronary angiography (SCA) is beyond dispute, the associated risk of an invasive approach, the inherent costs and the necessary hospitalization have lead to the development and investigation of novel non-invasive techniques for coronary imaging.
Intravenous coronary angiography (ICA) has been shown to permit non-invasive imaging of the coronary arteries.
We report nine case histories of patients admitted to a psychiatric hospital for severe somatic disorders.
The somatic disease was either the cause of the psychiatric symptomatology, or it occurred in addition to a well-known psychiatric disorder.
For general practitioners and psychiatrists it can be difficult to differentiate between symptoms due to psychiatric disorders and symptoms that indicate somatic disorders.
If patients refuse the necessary diagnostic or therapeutic procedures and show behaviour that is not related to good health, there is increased risk for complications and increased morbidity.
Penetrating neck injuries are potentially life-threatening injuries.
Management is controversial despite decades of discussion in the literature.
An algorithm for diagnosis and therapy is needed because of the potential risk of mortality.
In the Department of Trauma Surgery of Vienna Medical School, mandatory surgical exploration after noninvasive investigations is practiced.
Thirty-one patients with this kind of injury were treated between August 1992 and September 1999.
Injuries were caused in seven cases by gunshots, in eight cases by broken glass, in one case by an iron rod, in one case by a spear, in one case by a branch and in 13 cases the penetrating injuries were stab wounds caused by knives.
Complications like pseudoaneurysms and fistulas were not seen.
No patient came to death.
During a 18-year-period 93 patients (f=76, m=17) with a factitious disorder were identified in the psychiatric consultation service of a university hospital (incidence: 0.62%).
50% of women were working in medical professions whereas only 6% of men.
Chronic courses of illness were prevailing, but at least one quarter of female patients showed an intermittent type.
There was a classical Munchhausen syndrome in 11% of patients.
Depressive and anxiety disorders (10%, 4%) were to be respected as psychiatric comorbidity.
Ca 25% of the patients suffered from a somatic illness in addition to the factitious disorder, and one third of the women had symptoms of psychosomatic, especially of eating disorders.
Previous somatoform disorders, deliberate self harm and attempts of suicide were to be noted in the psychiatric history of many patients.
There were frequent traumatizing events (foster home, disturbing family disharmony, physical and sexual abuse, early losses, serious illnesses) in the early biography.
Various psychosocial stressors could be identified in the actual eliciting situation.
The results are discussed in respect of epidemiology, development and clinical phenomenology of factitious disorders, psychodynamics and psychopathology of deception and self harm, and therapeutic options in the psychiatric consultation service.
In a long-term follow-up we evaluated 40 patients out of 55 (73 %) with a subtalar fusion.
The operations took place from 5/84 to 5/91.
In all cases the indication for the fusion was a post-traumatic arthritis after an intra-articular os calcis fracture.
The evaluation of the overall results was carried out with three different scoring systems: a.
The Outcome-questionnaire, rating patient's complaints and the functional status based on the severity-symptom scale and functional status described for Carpaltunnel-syndrome by Levine et al.
c. The clinical rating system (CRS) described by Kitaoka et al.
The statistical evaluation was performed by analysis of variance (ANOVA).
Level of significance was based on P = 0.05 and calculation of Pearson's correlation coefficient.
The Os calcis fracture was the cause for the subtalar arthritis in all 40 patients (33 males and 7 females).
The primary treatment of the calcaneal fracture was conservative (cons.)
using a plaster in 23 patients (57.5 %), while 17 patients (42.5 %) underwent open reduction and plate fixation (op.).
The interval between trauma and subtalar fusion averaged 3.5 years (3 months to 20 years).
The interval between subtalar fusion and follow-up averaged 5.2 years (4-14 years).
The mean age at the time of reexamination was 47 years (26-61 years).
In the present study, complete pain relief could be achieved in 21 (52.5 %; 58 % op., 50 % cons.)
A relevant restriction in the range of motion in the ankle joint was found in 26 (65 %; 76 % op., 58 % cons.).
In 23 patients (62 %; 65 % op., 59 % cons.)
the radiological evaluation revealed a grade 1  ° arthritis of the ankle joint, in the talonavicular joint in 17 patients (42.5 %; 41 % op., 45 % cons.
), and in the calcaneo-cuboid joint in 14 patients (35 %; 47 %., 27 % cons.).
The statistical analysis revealed a better outcome in the operative group compared with the conservative group, although the operated os calcis fractures in the majority were the more severe fracture types.
In all evaluation systems a score between 61 and 69 points could be achieved with no significant difference between the operatively and conservatively treated groups and between the newly developed questionaire and the clinical-radiological scoring systems.
For the questionaire this fulfills the requirements for a reliable outcome evaluation.
Objectives Correction of an overriding fifth toe.
Non-palpable breast-lesions like microcalcifications often fail an exact diagnosis.
Accurate treatment is difficult by conventional marking and operating procedures since freehand positionin of al localization wire is often suboptimal.
The consequences are larger tissue-defects leading to an insufficient cosmetic result.
Nevertheless, resection of microcalcifications by conventional surgery remains sometimes incomplete.
Digital mammography coupled with stereotactic biopsy procedures gives more accurate results with minimal invasive techniques.
The advantages and disadvantages of the advanced breast biopsy intstrumentation (ABBI) procedure versus vacuum biopsy systems are summarized and compared.
Either of those systems is highly accepted by the patients due to the outpatient manner of its application and the convincing results regarding sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of the methods.
Chondroid syringoma belongs to the group of so-called mixed tumors, like pleomorphic adenomas of the lacrimal and salivary glands.
The histogenesis of this tumour is still disputed, in particular with respect to its stromal component.
The distribution of cytokeratins (CKs), CEA, EMA, vimentin, S-100 protein, desmin and actin [-smooth muscle actin (-SMA)] was investigated by immunohistological examination of paraffin sections from a chondroid syringoma of the apocrine type.
The neoplastic formations have been classified into tubuloalveolar structures, solid nests/aggregations and stromal cells of varying morphology.
The innermost cells of tubuloalveolar structures were characterized by marked expression of CKs (KL1 and MNF116), CEA and EMA, while in the outer ones there was moderate expression of vimentin, S-100 was expressed to a lesser extent and KL1, weakly but there was marked and consistent expression of MNF116.
Whereas the solid nests expressed vimentin, S-100 protein, MNF116 markedly and KL1 weakly, the stromal cells were consistently positive for vimentin, S-100 protein and, focally, CKs and -SMA.
Anti--SMA specifically detects myoepithelial cells.
In addition, the partly overlapping immunoreactivity of the intermediate filaments, membrane proteins and proteins in the different structures may indicate a common clonal origin of all neoplastic cells in chondroid syringoma.
Leg ulcers may be caused by many different diseases.
Most frequently, they are due to vasculopathies, to a lesser extent to metabolic, neuropathic or hematologic diseases.
Neoplasms, connective tissue diseases, infections, trauma, and panniculitis should also be included in the differential diagnosis.
A 38-year-old Caucasian female patient with hereditary prolidase deficiency developed progressive and very painful leg ulcers.
The ulcers first appeared in childhood and did not respond to various treatments.
Additional features of prolidase deficiency included mental retardation, short stature, extensive dental caries, and multiple malar teleangiectases.
Hereditary prolidase deficiency is a very rare autosomal recessive disease.
It is caused by heterogeneous mutations of the prolidase gene and affects many aspects of protein metabolism.
Ion exchange chromatography and high voltage electrophoresis of urine can prove the suspected diagnosis.
So far, there is no efficient therapy for hereditary prolidase deficiency.
All reported treatment attempts have ended in failure.
In this paper the basic features of acute, subacute and chronic types of osteomyelitis, skeletal tuberculosis and some special forms of osteomyelitis are described.
The diagnosis of osteomyelitis is established using clinical signs and symptoms, culture studies, laboratory studies and radiological signs.
The common conservative and surgical treatments are discussed.
In the treatment of post-traumatic/postoperative osteitis severe problems are encountered as a result of an increasing number of orthopaedic traumatologic surgical techniques using a variety of implants and because of a generally increasing occurrence of multiresistant strains.
Thanks to modern treatment and the increased use of antibiotics, a considerable decrease in morbidity and mortality is observed.
Despite this improved prognosis, an established infection remains one of the most challenging problems for the orthopaedic surgeon.
Besides an exponential growth in possibilities for diagnosis, treatment, and prevention in reproductive medicine and genetics, the synergistic effects of modern health technologies have led to the necessity of fast transfer of knowledge into the public domain in order to develop a common social consensus.
Thus, physicians and scientists have enormous obligations not only for the development of medical technology but also of medical and societal ethics.
Very early, i. e. in 1984, the German Medical Association developed professional laws for reproductive medicine.
In addition, the German government saw the need in 1990 for an "Embryo Protection Law" (Embryonenschutzgesetz).
Today, in the light of European integration, the medical profession's and state's obligations are challenged in different ways.
Whereas the German Medical Association continuously works on professional guidelines for reproductive medicine and genetics - currently the case with preimplantation genetic diagnosis - the government must develop the sociolegal framework for ethically sound reproductive medicine, i. e. , in the areas of inheritance law, adoption law, family law, and law of succession, the latter especially in the case of discrepancies between genetic vs. social paternity in heterologous insemination.
In Crohn's disease, some concomitant neurological illnesses such as cerebral ischemia following arterial or venous thrombosis, subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord following malabsorption of vitamin B12 or folic acid, opticus neuropathy, and polyneuropathy have been described.
Cerebral vasculitis secondary to Crohn's disease seems to be a very rare phenomenon.
We report on three such cases in three female patients (aged 26, 29, and 61 years).
All patients became symptomatic with a hemiparesis; one complained additionally of a speech disorder, headache, and intermittent loss of orientation.
In CT and MRI scans, multiple lesions were detected; cerebral angiography showed multiple stenoses of middle- and large-sized vessels that were compatible with cerebral vasculitis.
Serologic tests concerning vasculitis were inconspicuous at that time.
Under anticoagulation (in two cases) and immunosuppressive therapy, neurologic symptoms disappeared.
In the following 6 to 12 months, no new neurological symptoms appeared.
In two cases, Doppler sonographic controls showed stationary and, in one case, progressive intracranial stenoses.
The serin protease tryptase (ECNr.
3.4.21.59), which is almost exclusively expressed in mast cells, is released by mast cell degranulation in an enzymatically active form together with other mediators, e.g.
histamine, into the extracellular space and the circulation.
The capability of the enzyme to directly stimulate several cell types as well as to cleave polypeptide hormones and to activate pro-enzymes suggests a role for tryptase in inflammatory and tissue-remodeling processes.
Therefore, in the skin, a role of tryptase is suggested not only in mastocytosis and immediate type hypersensitivity reactions, but also in other inflammatory diseases, degenerative or neoplastic conditions as well as in wound healing, where an accumulation and/or activation of mast cells is found.
Extracellular tryptase may be superior to histamine as a parameter for the onset and course of immediate type reactions and as an indicator for the activation of mast cells in other conditions.
Its absence during histamine-liberating reactions may suggest basophil activation.
In addition, tryptase has been shown to be a sensitive and specific marker for the localization of mast cells in tissues.
Background: Since the development of lacrimal endoscopes with which the mucosa and disorders of the lacrimal drainage system can be examined directly, the choice of surgical technique has changed decisively.
Flexible miniendoscopes can be combined with a laser for the first time, allowing for exact localization of the stenosis and subsequent therapy.
Surgery of tibial plateau fractures with joint involvement (AO classification 41 A1, B1-B3 and C1- C3) makes high demands on traumatological management.
By using modern, minimally invasive operative techniques for juxta-articular fractures, it is possible to prevent soft tissue injuries that might affect the functional result.
The aim of this technique is to achieve the exercise stability obtained with standard procedures.
Arthroscopically assisted osteosynthesis not only minimizes the surgical soft tissue trauma, but also enables a precise assessment of the articular surfaces under the operation, as well as the simultaneous treatment of concomitant intra-articular injuries, a particular advantage as compared to conventional operative methods.
From a total of 54 patients with tibial plateau fractures, arthroscopically assisted osteosynthesis was performed in 34 patients at our clinic from September 1994 to January 1998.
The follow-up of a total of 17 patients revealed good recoveries when assayed by means of the Lysholm and Delamarter score.
We suggest that arthroscopically assisted, minimally invasive osteosynthesis can also be used in selected patients for the treatment of AO classification 41 C1-C3 fractures.
Dorsal tension band fixation is a wide-spread technique of finger arthrodesis.
When using a resorbable PDS-suture as tension band fixation a costly implant removal is not needed.
Aim of this study is the investigation of the primary stability of this technique in combination with the cup-in-cone-procedure.
Freeze-preserved fingers with thread tension band fixation using the PDS-material (series 1), the same fixating method on formaldehyde preserved fingers (series 3), freeze-preserved fingers with a standard tension band fixating (wire loop, series 2) are load in a four-point-bending in the direction of palmarflexion.
From 6 degrees onwards the wire-tension-system requires a higher torque for bending, but in case of higher torque frequently leads to fracture.
The examination shows that the thread-tension-band method by PDS-loop for the stabilisation of finger joint arthrodesis has a sufficient initial stability against bending forces.
Modern medicine has succeeded in achieving enormous technical developments.
One recent highlight has been the introduction of postmortem organ transplantation.
At the same time, serious objections have been raised concerning the radical changes in the cultural conception of the inviolable body.
One major objection arises from the conflict of considering a brain-dead person as dead.
The presence of brain death is a prerequisite for post-mortem organ donation, because only during this phase of dying does the individual quality as dead while the organs, other than the brain, remain viable.
The objection implies scepticism as to the physician's ability to distinguish a dead from a living person.
On the other hand, even the critics must rely on the physician's ability to discriminate, e.g., when to discontinue resuscitation.
The medical community has not found reasons to restrict the definition of irreversible coma 25 years after its first formulation.
It must be clearly recognised that reasons other than medical ones can be decisive for refusing organ donation.
One ethical problem is the therapeutic benefit of organ transplantation.
The beneficiary of the treatment is not the donor, but another person, the recipient.
The concept of human dignity does not allow the use of a person fur purposes other than the ones he/she consents to, as Immanuel Kant stated.
Although the human corpse is not a person in the full sense, even if it is protected by the thought of respect for the former person, the life-interest of the organ recipient had to be considered legitimate.
The resulting conflict between the respect for the donor and the life-interest of the recipient should be balanced by seeking the donor's consent as far as possible.
The proposed information model seems adequate at the moment.
A common report of both churches in Germany in 1990 supported postmortem organ transplantation.
The report dealt with the medical problems and harmonized them with the Christian value of solidarity.
The ethical alternatives to organ transplantation, however, are not mentioned.
Within this limitation, the report seems to adequately express the aim to strengthen individual competence and plead for fair perception of the neighbour's life-interest.
Starting point for this analysis are the mobility needs and requirements of elderly, as well as problems concerning access and use of public transport.
Elderly people as car drivers suffer from several performance deficits which are currently compensated by mobility restrictions and changed driving behaviour.
Driver assistance systems, just available or soon on the market, are demonstrated and analysed with respect to their impact on elderly drivers.
An expert evaluation comes to the conclusion that the most important systems for elderly are: emergency systems, enhanced vision systems and parking aids.
Emergency systems can call rescue teams automatically or at driver's request, and direct them to the emergency location.
Self imposed restrictions of elderly concerning night driving can partly be compensated by means of curve lightning and automatic dipping.
Parking aids, using cameras or infrared technique are especially helpful for persons with movability problems.
The group of helpful, but not highly important driver assistance systems covers several means for longitudinal and lateral control of the car, comprising autonomous cruise control, antilock systems and electronic stability programmes.
The value and impact of these systems are analysed in the light of risk homeostasis theory.
Reduced work load and ease of mobility will at last result from user centered navigation systems, helping the elder driver also to move to new areas without orientational problems.
The article demonstrates the particular importance of specific layouts of the man-machine-interface for elderly, to guarantee high acceptance and minimal distraction from traffic.
Causal treatment regimens of proven effectiveness in controlled studies are only available for cases of male infertility resulting from hypogonadotropic hypogonadism.
Drug treatment of retrograde ejaculation is also effective but has so far not been tested in double-blind, placebo-controlled randomized studies.
The results of immunosuppressive therapy in cases of immunological male infertility are still controversial .
In addition, antiphlogistic and antibiotic treatment of chronic male genital tract infections has not been shown to improve male fertility.
Inconsistent results have been obtained with empirical therapy - e.g., with kallikein, tamoxifen, clomiphene, pentoxifylline, mast cell blockers, testolacton, vitamin E, captopril, alpha receptor blockers, glutathione, indometacin, interferon alpha, growth hormone, zinc salts, ketoprofen, mesterone or testosterone undecanoate - or the studies performed are not sufficient to allow a final judgement.
Recent studies have indicated a possible impairment of sperm function by pure FSH, while GnrH and FSH have no influence on spermatogenesis in normogonadotropic men.
In 40 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), in 5 patients with non-AD dementia and in 36 cognitively normal controls the concentration of protein tau was determined in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF).
Of the AD patients, 19 were very mildly demented (MMSE score from 25 to 28).
Even in these patients, CSF tau was significantly more elevated than in controls.
In the non-AD patients protein tau was less increased.
Among the AD patients there was no association between CSF tau and severity of cognitive impairment or deficit in cerebral blood flow, determined by SPECT.
Our findings suggest that CSF tau may be elevated even at the predementia stage of AD and be useful as a biological marker for the early recognition of the disease.
The aim of our review is to summarize relevant data on the perioperative use of anti-ischaemic drugs in patients at risk for or with proven coronary heart disease.
The accessible medical literature according to current electronic information sources was explored.
One in every eight general anaesthetics is administered to a patient at risk for or with proven coronary heart disease.
Of these patients, it is estimated that 20% - 40% have perioperative myocardial ischaemia (PMI), the majority being nonsymptomatic.
This figure correlates with the occurrence of postoperative cardiac complications and myocardial infarction.
The anaesthetist therefore has an important role to play in reducing the rate of perioperative cardiac sequelae.
This can be achieved with good control of haemodynamic stability and the timely and appropriate use of antiischaemic drugs.
Nitrocompounds (nitrates, molsidomine) serve as the gold standard in current angina pectoris treatment.
Acting as coronary and systemic vasodilators, they effect an immediate reduction in preload and have been shown to be the drugs of first choice for intraoperative myocardial ischaemia.
Beta-blockers reduce the rate of PMI to a greater extent than nitrates.
They are also effective in myocardial ischaemia not accompanied by an increased heart rate.
Single pre-operative administration of beta-blockers has also been shown to be beneficial in reducing theincidence of perioperative tachycardia, hypertension, and PMI.
Consequently, such one-time medication can be considered for previously untreated high-risk patients presenting for surgery.
The continuation of oral calcium channel blockers to the morning of surgery also reduces the rate of PMI and myocardial infarction in coronary-bypass patients, and combination with beta-blockers enhances this effect.
Intra-operative diltiazem infusions are similarly advantageous in this patient group.
In addition to nitrates, calcium antagonists are the drug of choice for coronary vasospasm.
Drugs inhibiting platelet aggregation have a particular role in patients with coronary heart disease, however, they also cause increased perioperative bleeding.
Consequently, it is recommended that these medications be discontinued 5 - 10 days prior to major surgery, with the exception of high-risk patients.
Pilot studies using alpha2-agonists have shown reduced anaesthetic requirements and a reduction in PMI.
The perioperative relevance of these drugs is currently being investigated.
Beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers, nitrates, and possibly alpha2-agonists lead to reduced rates of PMI and other cardiac complications in risk patients.
Current anti-anginal medications, with the exception of anti-platelet agents, should be maintained to the day of surgery and continued as soon as possible thereafter.
All of these drugs except anti-platelet agents may also be used intra-operatively, however, possible interactions with anaesthetic agents should be carefully considered.
Inflammatory bowel diseases (Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis) were thought to be psychosomatic disorders.
However, this argument has recently been questioned by many researchers.
At the same time, biomedical factors have been described that were claimed to play a role in the aetiology and modulation of the course of inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD).
In the present paper, the state of research regarding both biomedical and psychosomatic factors of the aetiology and course of IBD is reviewed and critically evaluated from a methodological perspective.
Results covering the following topics are presented: epidemiology; sociodemographic variables; genetic factors; dietary factors and cigarette smoking; drugs; permeability of bowel epithelia; immunological factors; microbiological factors; psychiatric disorders, affective symptoms, personality factors; life events and psychosocial stress; quality of life; and coping with the illness.
Among biomedical factors, a genetically based pathological immune reaction is highly probable.
However, the findings of immunological disturbances are of a more descriptive nature and seem to explain not the aetiological process of the development of the disease, but rather a kind of disposition.
The question of which agents trigger the pathological immune cascade is still under investigation.
Interesting findings can possibly be expected of the psycho-neuro-immunological research in this area.
Results of research on psychological pathology (psychiatric disorders, personality factors) are inconclusive.
In particular, some modern, well-controlled studies have not been able to confirm the findings of the older literature.
Part of the high rate of psychiatric morbidity might be due to effects of selective sampling of more disturbed subjects.
Research pertaining to the influence of distressing life events has also yielded inconsistent results.
Prospective studies about the association of psychosocial stress and somatic symptomatology mostly demonstrated cross-sectional correlations which did not allow for causal interpretations.
However, coping research has shown interesting results that point to the mediating influence of coping strategies on the course of the disease.
Finally, perspectives for future research are suggested.
Genital infection, particularly bacterial vaginosis (BV), increases the relative risk of prematurity.
Detection of disturbances of vaginal milieu at an early stage and the use of suitable countermeasures such as intervention with antimicrobial substances can reduce the preterm birth rate.
A pregnancy with a partial or complete hydatidiform mole and a coexistent living fetus is a rare condition.
Most cases are consistent with a twin pregnancy, with distinct borders between placenta and mole on sonography.
We report a case with a single placenta with cystic structures resembling histologically a complete hydatidiform mole.
The pregnancy resulted in a diploid female fetus in the 34th week of gestation with marked hypotrophy.
The non-molar part of the placenta showed a complex alteration of villous maturity resulting in intrauterine growth retardation but a living fetus.
No malignancy occured post partum.
The clinical and pathogenetic aspects of this rare entity are discussed.
So far, necrosis of the lunate bone has been interpreted in the literature as a phenomenon with a traumatic, primarily vascular-arterial or mechanical causation.
These models seem problematic, since neither the patients' histories nor the macroscopic-radiographical or histological appearances can be reconciled with them.
In contrast, the model of a primarily venous aetiopathogenesis accepted for idiopathic necrosis of the femoral head is now examined.
Evaluation of 125 cases of lunate bone necrosis treated in the Department of Orthopaedics at the University Hospital in Heidelberg between 1958 and 1993 made it possible to reconstruct the spontaneous course of the condition.
X-Ray material, core spin tomographic images and material from a prospective study carried out in 49 patients with unexplained painful conditions of the wrist were available.
A stage-by-stage progression emerged, which initially caused alterations only in the MR image, while the X-ray picture remained unremarkable.
It was recognized from the spontaneous course that subsequent changes in the shape of the diseased lunate bones were always the result of the necrotic transformation process and never the cause of it.
This meant that fractures were excluded as a possible cause of necrosis of the lunate bone.
The spontaneous course was used as the basis of a stage-related classification for lunate bone necrosis.
In a pressure measurement test, the behaviour of the intraosseous pressure in 16 necrotic lunate bones, 16 healthy lunate bones and 16 healthy capitate bones was tested under various functional conditions.
The pressure fluctuations in the capitate bones were very slight, while in the healthy lunate bones pressure increased significantly during extension of the wrist.
The position-dependent pressure increases in the lunate bones indicated that the venous drainage was constantly in jeopardy.
The pressure increases in necrotic lunate bones were significantly in excess of those in healthy ones; in some cases they were far in excess of the systolic blood pressure.
It was also concluded that necrotic lunate bones were mechanically deformed on movement.
The anatomical causes of the pronounced pressure increases were examined experimentally.
After staining of both the arteries and the veins, epoxy sheet plastination was used to fix six fresh cadaver arms in the neutral position and six in extension.
Visualization of the vessels showed that capsular-ligamentous structures that were stretched on the palmar side and slackly turned back on themselves on the dorsal side still allowed the blood supply from the arteries, but substantially hindered venous drainage.
The anatomical preparations made it possible to see that venous drainage from the lunate bone was being prevented; this explained the pronounced pressure increases.
The unphysiological position of the base of the radius inclined in the palmar direction relative to the hand axis when it was extended dorsally was the crucial factor in the development of necrosis.
Evaluation of the histories of the patients with necrosis of the lunate bone made it clear that trauma was not significantly involved in the causation, while manual work had an important role.
Most manual activites are performed with the wrist in extension.
Any extension favours triggering of bone necrosis through congestion in the venous trunk.
Thus, our investigations have shown that the beginning of this illness starts with congestion such as occurs with every extension of the wrist, which is initially physiological, before further factors favouring the process cause it to take a pathologic course.
The results of the German National Health Interview and Examination Survey 1998 confirm allergies as widespread diseases in Germany.
In total 40 to 43 % of the adult population have or have had an allergic disease.
The morbidity was assessed using a self-administered questionnaire and a personal interview performed by a physician.
The agreement between questionnaire and interview data is greater than 90 % for allergic rhinitis, food allergy and urticaria and about 80 % for contact dermatitis and asthma.
The results of both assessment methods showed remarkable differences between East and West Germany.
Using the interview data 17 % of the West but only 11 % of the East German adults have/had e.g.
Comparable differences exist for contact dermatitis.
Many people with allergies suffer or have suffered from several allergies.
Frequent patterns of combination are food allergy/allergic rhinitis and asthma/allergic rhinitis.
In comparison with former studies we observed an increase of 70 % in the prevalence of allergic rhinitis between 1990/92 and 1998.
The relative increase is higher in East than in West.
The time trend in prevalence of asthma could only be calculated for the West German population.
The results show a remarkable increase here, too.
Case report on a 72 year old female patient presenting with collapse and progressive dyspnea.
X-ray of the chest showed a marked enlargement of the heart extending to the right.
Echocardiography revealed an impressive displacement of the heart chambers to the left caused by a large aneurysm (11x5x5 cm) located anteriorly and medially from the right heart communicating with the right atrium.
Pronounced compression of the basal part of the right ventricle was present.
Within the aneurysmatic cavity several highly mobile thrombi and extensive spontaneous echo contrast were demonstrated.
On magnetic resonance imaging and right heart angiocardiography the aneurysm was visualized as well.
Coronary angiography revealed a marked curved displacement of the right coronary artery to the left side.
Perfusion lung scanning suggested bilateral segmental pulmonary embolism proven by digital substraction angiography.
With long-term oral anticoagulation the patient remained symptomfree during follow-up of now more than four years.
ICD-10 was implemented for morbidity coding in Germany in January 2000.
The electronic versions of ICD-10 are introduced.
For everyday work with the classification and for epidemiological research further tools are provided by DIMDI: ICD-10 meta files, ICD conversion tables, ICD-10 thesaurus of diagnostic terms.
All files are available free of charge via the INTERNET.
Hair is regarded as a product of the skin and cutaneous appendage.
Possible influences of skin functions such as resorption, excretion and as a temporary reservoir for drug substances on hair analysis is discussed.
The relevance of skin secretions and their interactions with keratinized hair fibers is outlined.
For the emergency treatment of sustained, hemodynamically stable ventricular tachycardia, antiarrhythmic drugs are the therapy of choice.
Mostly class I antiarrhythmic drugs, such as lidocaine or ajmaline, are preferred.
In hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia, electrical cardioversion should be applied, in case of recurrences, followed by pharmaclogical treatment with class I antiarrhythmic drugs or amiodarone.
For the primary prevention of sudden cardiac death, -blockers and/or amiodarone are the only effective drugs.
In the secondary prevention, only the implantable cardioverter/defibrillator has proved to improve the prognosis of the patients.
Insular carcinoma of the thyroid is a low differentiated type constituting about 5 % of all thyroid cancers.
Higher aggressiveness has been suggested as an important clinical feature.
The value of preoperative fine-needle aspiration biopsy is not clearly proven for insular carcinoma.
The criteria for histological diagnosis have been outlined by Carcangiu et al.
Because of its aggressiveness, radical treatment at primary surgery appears advisable.
Its clear distinction from undifferentiated (anaplastic) and medullary (C cell) cancers is important, as thyroglobulin is regularly synthesized by cancer cells.
Enrichment of radioactive iodine makes such treatment feasible postoperatively and at relapse.
Follow-up should be performed as in highly differentiated papillary and follicular thyroid cancer.
A patient series of eight cases is presented.
While all cancers were advanced at the initial diagnosis, the observed disease courses were in agreement with the assumption that insular carcinoma is a more aggressive form of differentiated thyroid cancer.
The result of an investigation of 128 from 283 (45,2%) medical and psychological psychotherapists established in the city of Hannover is presented.
The aim of the study is to characterize the situation of psychotherapeutical care not only by the number of psychotherapists in relation to inhabitants but also by the working time spent for psychotherapy.
Besides we found gender, school of psychotherapy and professional experience as factor influencing the patients waiting time for beginning a psychotherapy.
In contrast to other studies, the number of medical and psychological psychotherapists is not different, nevertheless the psychotherapeutical care in Hannover is not ensured.
Objectives Reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament in children without creating permanent damage to the tibial or femoral physes.
The semitendinosus tendon, left attached distally, is passed through a tunnel in the tibial epiphysis, led through the joint, passed behind the lateral femoral condyle and fixed to the outer aspect of the femur with a staple.
The anomalous origin of the right coronary artery from the pulmonary artery is one of the rarest coronary anomalies which often remains asymptomatic until the patients achieve advanced age but may also be clinically manifest already in infants and lead to sudden death.
We report the diagnostics and surgical treatment in a 15-month-old asymptomatic child and the necessity of surgical repair.
The diagnosis was incidentally made during an echocardiographic procedure and confirmed by coronary angiography.
A reimplantation of the ano origin of the coronary artery was carried out wihtout using extra-corporal circulation.
There were no postoperative complications.
Due to the coronary steal phenomenon and the related coronary risk, surgical repair is recommended also for asymptomatic cases.
The surgical management of vesicovaginal fistulae (VVF) is a matter of controversy.
This study deals with our experience with transvaginally treated patients suffering from VVF.
Between 1966 and 1996, 64 patients with VVF were treated surgically.
The VVF occurred in the course of hysterectomy in 54 patients, was due to radiotherapy in 7, was a result of obstetric complications in 2 patients, and occurred after colporrhaphy in 1 patient.
In 60 of these 64 patients closure of the fistula was carried out transvaginally.
Fourteen of these 60 patients (23 %) had undergone prior surgical attempts to close the VVF (1 to 3 procedures).
Transvaginal surgery was successful at first attempt in 55 of these 60 patients (92 %).
The other 5 patients were successfully treated by a second procedure (again transvaginal: n = 3; transabdominal: n = 2).
In conclusion, the transvaginal approach to close VVF is of advantage, avoiding an abdominal incision and reducing postoperative morbidity.
In the vast majority of the cases isolated VVF can be treated successfully by transvaginal repair.
Myotonic dystrophy is an autosomal dominant multisystem disorder involving muscle, brain, heart, eyes, and endocrine organs.
The underlying mutation is an expanding trinucleotide CTG repeat in the 3'prime untranslated region of a serine-threonine kinase gene on chromosome 19q.
A statistical correlation exists between the CTG copy number and the severity of the disease.
Infants with severe congenital myotonic dystrophy have been shown to have on average a greater amplification of the CTG repeat than is seen in the non-congenital myotonic dystrophy population.
However, not all patients with many CTG copies develop congenital myotonic dystrophy.
We present 13 patients with more than 1500 CTG trinucleotide repeats and show their variable clinical course.
Whilst the incidence of psychiatric disorders decreases during pregnancy, the risk during the postpartum period increases significantly, often leading to the necessity of psychopharmacological intervention during the puerperium, and subsequently during lactation and breast-feeding.
The necessity for lithium prophylaxis in manic-depressive women after childbirth has been identified, and it is recommended that weaning rather than omission of psychopharmacological treatment is preferable during the puerperium.
Objectives Arthrodesis of the Chopart joint.
Should a malalignment exist, it must be corrected prior to fusion.
Elimination of painful functional disturbances and reduced need for custom-made shoes.
In 300 patients with 339 coronary lesions the percent diameter stenosis (%-DS) was assessed both by visual estimation and by digital quantitative coronary angiography (DQCA) by use of an on-line computer workstation.
The decision for coronary angioplasty in the same setting ("prima vista"-PTCA) was based on history, evidence of ischemia and visual estimation of %-DS.
DQCA measurements of the 339 stenoses revealed a normal distribution of lesion severity with a mean of 58.4  +/-  11.3%.
In contrast to DQCA visual estimation led to a bimodal distribution with a nadir at ~55% between two peaks at ~45% and ~75% and a mean of 70.5  +/-  19.6%.
Visual estimation underestimated lesions in the range of 30-55% and overestimated the %-DS between 55-99%.
Visual estimation revealed a %-DS >= 60% in 251 stenoses (74.0%) of the 339 lesions, an estimate that led to subsequent "prima vista"-PTCA.
Conversely, DQCA revealed only 184 stenoses (54.3%) with a %-DS >= 60%; thus, 86 stenoses (25.3%) did not meet the morphologic indication criteria for PTCA.
The bimodal distribution of stenosis severity according to visual analysis with an overestimation of borderline stenosis severity reflects a tendency for "self-referral" of patients for PTCA.
DQCA serves as an objective tool in the decision-making process for PTCA and may reduce "cosmetic" interventions or justify to defer PTCA.
Especially in the selection process for "prima vista"-PTCA DQCA-quantification of stenosis severity is recommended.
S-100 protein and neuron-specific enolase (NSE) serum concentrations serve as markers of cerebral damage in cardiac surgery, neurology, or after head injury.
In these circumstances, S-100 and NSE levels correspond with the results of neuropsychological tests.
The present study investigated the diagnostic value in orthopaedic patients after joint replacement.
Since its introduction in clinical use more than ten years ago, propofol is well appreciated for sedation and supplemental hypnosis in anaesthesia.
However the substance is approved only for anaesthesia in children elder than three years.
As can be substantiated by many data reported in literature, there are no pharmacokinetic or pharmacodynamic reasons whatsoever to withhold propofol from the younger children; this applies both to the use as a narcotic supplement and as a short term hypnotic for diagnostic and therapeutic interventions.
Orthostatic circulatory disorders are frequently the cause of orthostatic intolerance, syncope or dangerous falls.
A sufficient therapy should be based on a differential diagnosis by means of an active standing test or a tilt-table test.
Three typical pathological reactions of blood pressure and heart rate can be differentiated.
The hypoadrenergic orthostatic hypotension is characterised by an immediate drop in blood pressure (systolic drop >20 mmHg below base line within 3 min) with or without compensatory tachycardia.
It is caused by peripheral or central sympathetic dysfunction.
Tachycardia (>30 beats per minute above base line within 10 min) without significant blood pressure drop but with a fall of cerebral blood flow indicates a postural tachycardia syndrome.
In general, there is no further somatic dysfunction.
Increased venous pooling is thought to be the assumed pathomechanism.
A reflex mechanism evokes the neurocardiogenic syncope after a certain time of standing: sympathetic inhibition yields a strong blood pressure drop and vagal activation bradycardia.
Proved therapies include use of the mineralocorticoide fludrocortison (hypoadrenergic orthostatic hypotension), of the a-agonist midodrin (postural tachycardia syndrome) and of b-blockers (neurocardiogenic syncope).
There are numerous diseases which can irreversibly stiffen the whole spine or parts of the axial skeleton.
Due to didactic reasons one can distinguish 3 gropus of such disorders: -  Paradigmatic diseases of the spine with an inherent proneness to stiffness.
-  Rare diseases which involve a certain danger of stiffening the spine.
-  Rigidity of the spine due to scientifically unrecognised morphologic phenomena.
Modern approaches in knee endoprosthetics using computer-assisted navigation systems are based on matching procedures which refer to osseous anatomical landmarks.
However, surface replacement techniques require a correct position of the implants in relation to the bone, as well as an optimal postoperative interaction of the ligaments and the surface design of the endoprosthesis.
Functional aspects are of elementary importance.
A 79-year-old man died of fatal haemorrhage into the soft tissue of the true pelvis 2 days after transrectal ultrasound-guided prostatic biopsy.
Autopsy revealed a perforation of the left prostatic lobe with ruptures of the periprostatic vessels.
A similar case of transrectal prostatic biopsy-associated complication has not been described previously.
The judicial enquiries were discontinued.
Several different theories exist about the orign of kinetosis and the space adaption syndrome, with individual sensitivities differing significantly.
One explanation involves the hypothesis of a different otolith mass between the right and left statolith organ and especially a difference in the utricles.
A difference in mass results in a different sensitivity to acceleration.
For this reason we measured interindividual variances in saccular and utricular otolith mass.
Since the anatomy of the vestibular organ in vertebrates is based as similar principles, we selected fish (salmon and trout) as our study model to facilitation preparations.
The maximum difference in mass in the saccule was 17% and was generally smaller in the utricle, although in individual cases was much higher.
We assume that a misbalanced sensitivity of the statolith organs occurs but is totally compensated for by the vestibular system as long as physiological motion patterns take place.
Decompensation leads to kinetosis under non-physiological motion patterns.
When the vestibular system is better balanced and has an equally distributed otolith mass to both sides, the possibility for developing kinetosis or space adaption syndrome is much less likely.
The clinical features, diagnosis and treatment of haematogenous multifocal osteomyelitis, a rare illness, are described.
Of clinical note are the pain, pseudoparalyses and restriction of movement.
Staphylococcus aureus was the pathogen in both of the cases we described.
Sonography is a useful diagnostic tool for the localization of subperiosteal abscesses; scintigraphy is a supplementary examination for cases where it is difficult to establish a diagnosis.
MR-tomography is the most reliable method for examination of proximal infected foci (spondylitis, pelvis osteomyelitis).
In our view, the earliest possible removal of all infected foci by means of operation and parenteral antibiotics mare the most important treatment.
Interactions between the endocrine and immune systems are well known with special regard to the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis.
Little of the literature focuses on the complex effects of cytokines on tissue responsiveness to glucocorticoids (GC).
In bone tissue, osteoblasts represent a valuable model for studying GC-cytokine interactions.
Hence, we have studied two human osteosarcoma cell lines (Saos-2 and MG-63) with different degrees of differentiation and different constitutive IL-6 production (3.4 +/- 0.3 (mean  +/- SE) and 3309 +/- 578 pg/106 cells).
We measured glucocorticoid receptor (GR) number and affinity as a function of the exposure of cells to different amounts of IL-6.
Incubation for 20 h with IL-6 at increasing concentrations up to 2000 pg/ml yielded a significant increase of GR binding sites in both cell lines.
IL-6 was also able to reverse the inhibitory effect of dexamethasone (1 µmol/l) on GR in both cell lines.
In MG-63 cells, expressing higher concentrations of GR, IL-6 deprivation via a specific anti-IL-6 antibody (100 ng/ml) significantly decreased GR.
In Saos-2 cells, expressing lower concentrations of GR, a 40 h treatment with human IL-1 (10 ng/ml) significantly increased both IL-6 production and GR.
This latter effect was completely abolished by co-treating the cells with the anti-IL-6 antibody.
Our results provide evidence that IL-6 is an autocrine positive modulator of GR number in human osteoblasts.
Tumor debulking of gastrointestinal tumors for the reduction of tumor mass is intended to improve subsequent treatment efficacy.
However, in advanced malignant disease, this therapy is often associated with increased morbidity and lethality.
Adjuvant therapies cannot be initiated when needed.
Therefore, long-term survival remains unaffected.
Advances in biomedical science provide preliminary explanations for these therapeutic problems.
Modern therapeutic concepts like neoadjuvant therapy for locally advanced tumors are based on these findings.
The probability of complete R0 resections, necessary to improve long-term survival, can be enhanced by these therapies.
The ongoing prospective neoadjuvant studies for gastrointestinal tumors are already very encouraging.
The simulation of unilateral deafness is very rare.
Objective findings are of special interest if it happens.
A patient with alleged deafness on the left-hand side due to commotio cerebri was treated in our hospital.
Pure tone audiometry showed deafness on the left-hand side and normal hearing on the right-hand side.
However, stapedius reflexes were found ipsilaterally left as well as contralaterally right, at 0.5 to 2 kHz with a stimulation of approxamately 90 dB SPL.
Transiently evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAE) and distortion-product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAE) were measured.
The TEOAE had the same reproducibility but a very low response on both sides, such that inner ear function could not be evaluated.
In comparison, the DP gram showed clear DP amplitudes over the whole frequency range on both sides.
Nonphysiological DPs could be excluded by assessing the DP growth rate at three different frequencies.
By means of brainstem electric response audiometry (BERA), with which the IV/V complex was detectable up to stimulation with 20 dB SPL clicks, and the Stenger test, a neural or central hearing loss could be excluded.
Normal hearing on the left-hand side was thus confirmed.
In cases of simulated deafness it is possible to prove a normal inner ear function by DPOAE.
DPOAE therefore complements the list of potential audiological simulation tests.
Controlled studies of adrenal steroids in premenopausal women with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have revealed subtle and inconsistent decreases in glucocorticosteroid (GCS) function, but prominent deficiencies of adrenal androgens (AA).
Such findings have suggested that hypoandrogenicity may predispose to RA in younger women.
However, recent prospective studies of serum cortisol and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS) levels before (x = 12 yrs) the onset of the disease (pre-RA) offer an alternative perspective.
Significant dissociation of serum cortisol and DHEAS levels was found only in the subgroup of premenopausal women who developed RA before age 50.
This subgroup alone had significant deficiency in serum DHEAS levels.
A growing number of casualties and the increasing restrictions of funding will lead as a consequence to changes within the field of trauma surgery.
Despite these developments trauma surgery must maintain its major responsibility towards the victims of accidents.
Therefore the German Society for Trauma Surgery (DGU) has to face the future economic and social challenges to influence the coming changes.
This role compromises the engagement in a continuous struggle for the high and global standard of injury care in Germany, for quality assessment, education and training, research and adequate public relations.
This paper outlines the aspects and visions of future trauma surgery and the means which may continue to guaranty international acknowledged standard of trauma care in Germany.
Radiofrequency catheter ablation is the treatment of choice in atrioventricular nodal reentrant tachycardia.
Electrophysiologic investigations in 623 patients revealed eight mechanisms of tachycardia ablation: Ablation of fast (I) or slow(II), modification of fast (III) or slow AV nodal pathways (IV), modification of both pathways (V), ablation of fast and modification of slow (VI), ablation of slow and modification of fast pathways (VII) and ablation of both pathways (VIII).
The criteria of diagnosis of these eight mechanisms of tachycardia ablation are described.
Follow-up showed fewer relapses in patients with ablation (0-2%) in comparison to patients with modification of a single AV nodal pathway (8-12%).
Alteration of both pathways includes an increasing risk of total AV nodal block, which occured in 7 patients (1.1%).
Detailed analysis of the mechanism of catheter ablation is recommended in all patients after radiofrequency current delivery for AV nodal reentrant tachycardia to estimate the risk of relapsing during follow-up or development of total AV block in the particular patient in case of a further ablation procedure.
An increasing life expectancy leads to a higher number of persons aged 70-84 years and persons aged 85 years and older.
Information concerning changes in the spectrum of psychiatric morbidity is rare.
The Berlin Aging Study was based on a representative age- and gender-stratified sample (n = 516) of Berlin citizens aged 70-100 years and older.
In this interdisciplinary study, an intensive investigation was carried out by psychologists, sociologists, internists and psychiatrists.
This report focuses on subjectively reported complaints (Beschwerdeliste, BL), observed psychopathological symptomatology (Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, BPRS) and psychiatric diagnoses following the criteria of DSM-III-R (based on the Geriatric Mental State Examination, GMS-A).
On the self-rating scale (BL) 10 % of all persons reported severe subjective complaints, 32 % moderate complaints.
On the BPRS, 17 % showed severe psychopathological symptomatology, 75 % at least mild symptoms.
Following the criteria of DSM-III-R, 23.5 % of all persons had a psychiatric disease, 4.2 % a disease of severe intensity.
When the DSM-III-R diagnoses "Not Otherwise Specified" (NOS) were included 40.4 % of all subjects were diagnosed by the clinical judgement of the psychiatrists to have a psychiatric disease.
The most frequent psychiatric diseases were insomnia (18.8 %), depression NOS (17.8 %) and dementia (13.8 %).
Dementia showed the well-known age-related increase, whereas no other incidences of psychiatric morbidity were age-related.
Persons aged 70-84 years did not differ in the investigated psychiatric variables from persons aged 85 years and older, the only exception being the prevalence of dementia.
A first overview concerning developmentary risk factors and protective factors for later psychic and psychosomatic disease is presented.
Problems within the context of the collection of data and evaluation are discussed.
We analyzed how psoriasis patients sought professional help and correlated it to their illness attitudes and feelings of stigmatization.
Semi-structured interviews of 400 patients were reanalyzed to identify homogeneous groups concerning initial reactions at first manifestations of the disease.
Four groups ("isolated", "stigmatized", "socially supported" and "non-stigmatized" patients) were found and cross-tabulated with five resulting groups of a second cluster-analysis concerning the "style" of the seeking behaviour of professional and paraprofessional help and medical measures against the psoriasis ("multi-users", "arranged mini-users", "waiting-room patients", "optimists" and "self- therapists").
We were able to describe typical courses of illness behaviour depending on the initial reaction.
The results are discussed with regard to the desirable identification of problematic patients within professional care units.
The sonographic diagnosis of malignant lymphoma in childhood is described.
Malignant lymphomas are sonographically relatively uniform: initial enlargement of the lymph nodes and organs involved and disturbance of normal echo texture by mainly hypoechoic lesions can be found.
Generally, four sonographic patterns of infiltration are described: diffuse, small nodular, large nodular and bulky type.
Secondary, tumor-related or inflammatory complications (e. g. dislocation or compression of vessels, thoracic inlet syndrome, venous thrombosis, ileus, urinary retention, abscess and effusion) can be sonographically evaluated.
Response to therapy correlates with normalization of size and echo texture and recovery from tumor-related complications.
Differential diagnosis with ultrasound is based on the topographic distribution and echo pattern of infiltration and, with certain restrictions, on the echogenicity of lesions and perfusion feasible with Doppler sonography.
The primary diagnosis has to be established histologically.
The treatment of acute posterior instabilities can involve a reconstructive procedure as well as an antidislocation augmentation.
Tibial bony avulsion ruptures must be reconstructed.
For the treatment of chronic posterior instabilities we used the patella tendon graft, which can be implanted by an anterior or posterior approach.
In cases of posterolateral instabilities, additional procedures are necessary.
Ultrasound of the Achilles tendon is a suitable means of differentiating various diseases of the tendon and the surrounding tissue.
Different forms of degenerative disease (tendinitis, peritendinitis or bursitis, fibroosteitis, and Haglund's disease) can be discriminated from rheumatic and metabolic diseases.
Congenital and developmental abnormalities can also be detected.
Tendon degeneration mainly occurs in the ventral part of the medial third of the tendon ("critical zone").
Immature tissue in this area leads to temorary instability of the tendon with a high risk of rupture ("vulnerable phase").
With sonography, lesions of the Achilles tendon are visible early in the course of the disease.
The German social security legislation has recognized only recently the concern of quality assessment in the field of social and medical services.
The legal frame for quality assessment in the field of medical treatment was enacted in the sickness insurance provision (Social Code - Book V) only in 1989.
Quality assessment is considered to be a part of the production of medical services and, therefore, is regulated in the context of providing medical services.
The legal provisions do not establish standards for quality and quality assessment.
Due to the variety of medical services, quality assessment is not regulated in an exhaustive or systematic manner.
According to the law, providers of medical services (doctors, hospitals) are bound to participate in quality assessment.
As internal quality assessment prevails in the definition of the various measures of quality assessment and the control of quality in all fields of medical treatment, external quality assessment is also prescribed for hospitals.
Because the establishment of quality assessment is considered to be a part of the service production organization, consumers (patients) or their representatives are not involved in the definition, establishment, and control of quality assessment.
The participation of patients should be provided by law.
Introduction: Because of an increasing number of endoscopic hernia procedures, it is important to look into the possibility of standardizing these techniques helping surgeons to acquire the operative skills necessary.
Material and Methods: To discuss these aspects, the documented data on TAPP operations that have been carried out in this department since 1993 were analyzed.
The results of teaching procedures were compared with those of experts after they had gotten past the learning and development curve.
Results: A total of 778 teaching procedures were performed by 10 surgeons with an individual experience of 30.5 operations (median).
Before starting the first procedure, 89 were done by assistants operating the camera.
The morbidity of teaching operations was 1.9 % compared to 1.4 % for those performed by experts.
After a median follow-up of 23 months there were two recurrences (0.23 %) in the expert group and none in the teaching group (follow-up 16 months).
Conclusion: Because of the potentials of standardization of the TAPP technique, the results of teaching were equal to expert operations.
Therefore, TAPP is suitable for application in a routine setting.
In spite of the high and lasting efficiency of transurethral prostatectomy, intraoperative blood loss results in increased morbidity in this procedure.
This led to the development of many alternative treatment modalities in the last years.
To minimize the risk of bleeding, we improved the high-frequency technology in several steps.
To achieve this, the output signals of commercially available high-frequency generators were modulated to the effect that each cut results in an efficient coagulation zone in the tissue at excellent cutting quality.
Laboratory and in vitro studies using porcine kidneys as well as clinical trials showed good cutting characteristics accompanied by a significant reduction of bleeding.
As a result, blood transfusions were less necessary, the transurethral catheter could be removed earlier in the postoperative period, and hospitalization time was significantly reduced.
In conclusion, the improved high-frequency technology in form of the "coagulating intermittent cutting" results in a blood-sparing tissue resection with a consecutive reduction of morbidity.
An accurate assessment of the duration of the ability to act following fatal poisoning can be of major importance in reconstructing circumstances leading to death, especially in determining whether the poisoning was accidental, self-inflicted, or the result of a criminal act.
Clinical publications have scarcely dealt with this problem.
We therefore examined 20 legal autopsies performed at the Institutes of Forensic Medicine of the Universities of Würzburg and Leipzig as well as the respective records of the police and prosecuting attorney's offices in an effort to clarify this question.
As a rule the victims retained the ability to act for 10-15 min.
However, the material we examined and the literature also contain cases in which the ability to act lasted considerably longer.
The present study is intended to provide expert witnesses with guidelines for clarification of cases of fatal intoxication.
Androgenablation is the therapy of choice for the treatment of advanced and metastatic prostate cancer.
However, in more than half of the patients the disease will ultimately progress within 2 years.
Intermittent androgenablation through medical castration maintains the apoptotic potential.
By periodically changing phases on and off treatment the quality of life of the patients is improved.
Apart from reduced toxicity treatment costs are lowered and tumor progression is possibly delayed.
In how far survival is influenced is presently not clear and remains to be evaluated in further clinical trials.
During pressure support ventilation (PSV), the timing of the breathing cycle is mainly controlled by the patient.
Therefore, the delivered flow pattern during PSV might be better synchronised with the patient's demands than during volume-assisted ventilation.
In several modern ventilators, inspiration is terminated when the inspiratory flow decreases to 25% of the initial peak value.
However, this timing algorithm might cause premature inspiration termination if the initial peak flow is high.
This could result not only in an increased risk of dyssynchronization between the patient and the ventilator, but also in reduced ventilatory support.
On the other hand, a decreased peak flow might inappropriately increase the patient's inspiratory effort.
The aim of our study was to evaluate the influence of the variation of the initial peak-flow rate during PSV on respiratory pattern and mechanical work of breathing.
To date, positron emission tomography (PET) is the most powerful tool for the non-invasive study of biochemical processes.
Besides its usefulness for basic research PET has been proven to be superior to conventional diagnostic methods in several clinical indications.
However, the introduction of PET into clinical practice has been hindered considerably by its costs.
Several American studies lend support to the hypothesis that PET may be more cost-effective than the conventional diagnostic work-up - at least for some of its clinical indications.
In Germany, however, this hypothesis has still not been verified.
The rapid growth, development and organ differentiation during early human development depend on an adequate and balanced substrate availability.
It is well known that early nutrition has short term effects (e.g.
on growth), and that marked metabolic imbalances in infancy (e.g.
hypoglycaemia, phenylketonuria) have long term effects on child development.
More recent studies indicate that also variations of metabolic conditions within the normal range, which occur during sensitive periods of early human development, may have marked long term effects on later prognosis and disease risks in adulthood.
This metabolic programming was demonstrated in epidemiologic studies indicating close relationships between indicators of early growth and the disease incidence and the mortality of coronary heart disease in late adulthood.
Long term effects of infant feeding on immunological functions are indicated by the effects of infant feeds on later prevalence of allergic disease and by the difference in morbidity for diabetes mellitus, Crohn's disease and malignant lymphoma between previously breast fed and formula fed infants.
An improved understanding of the cellular and molecular mechanisms that modulate these observed long term effects is required to enable effective preventive interventions.
Already the available information indicates a great potential for actively improving long term child health and development by an improved substrate supply during pregnancy and infancy.
Persons who cross international boundaries are at increased risk of contracting infectious diseases.
An analysis of the reported communicable diseases in Germany shows: A large number of cases of typhoid fever, paratyphoid fever, shigella infections, trichinellosis and brucellosis notified during the last years in Germany originated from foreign countries.
Intervention measures are necessary, above all, with regard to gastrointestinal infections and vaccine-preventable diseases.
Bilateral testicular tumors account for approximately 3,5 % of all testicular malignancies and to our knowlegde about 800 cases are reported in the literature.
An even more seldom event is the appearance of a testicular germ cell tumor with a contralateral benign non-germ cell tumor.
We report the 6th case of such a coincidence.
The dignity of a contralateral tumor should be assured by frozen section and in case of benign histology organ preserving therapy is indicated.
Even in cases of bilateral testis cancer tumor enucleation may be considered, if the strict conditions for resection and follow-up are respected.
Most sudden cardiac deaths are arrhythmic.
Besides the known effects of beta-blockers, among true antiarrhythmic drugs only amiodarone seemed to reduce total cardiac mortality in patients at risk.
Reevaluation of amiodarone with or without a beta-blocker in primary prophylaxis of sudden cardiac death after review of recent publications.
Only augmentation of case numbers by meta-analyses of controlled trials could demonstrate that amiodarone not only reduces sudden cardiac death but also diminishes total cardiac mortality.
However, the number of avoided sudden deaths is small in comparison to the number of treated cases.
This and specific side effects of amiodarone contradict a general primary prophylaxis with this drug.
An additional benefit by combining amiodarone with beta-blockers seems to exist but has to be proven by further studies.
At present, primary prophylaxis of sudden cardiac death with amiodarone with or without a beta-blocker is an individual decision in all cases with special risk considerations.
As a result of a critical review of the literature and a survey at German epilepsy centers of usual pre- and postoperative drug treatment, the following strategy is recommended:
An ecological theory of remembering is formulated which is based on the patterns of meaningfulness in the social and spatial environment.
The specific ecological relationship to the environment is affinitive, and also opens access to the ressources of the past.
In the present study, conditions for this access (in particular with older people) were investigated.
It is assumed that older people, especially, when they lose someone with whom they had a fixed relationship seek counselling and that abrupt changes in the spatial environment, such as moving to a home, are rejected by older people.
These hypotheses were checked on the basis of material (N=120) gathered in a counselling service for the aged and they were essentially confirmed.
To make matters clear, "typical" and thus every-day experiences of maintenance and loss of competence are cited from the material.
Finally, practical conclusions are drawn with regard to work with the aged.
Following Shouldice repair of a primary inguinal hernia 50 patients were given subcutaneous Redon drains, while another 50 patients underwent operations without drains in a prospective randomized trial.
The amount of postoperative wound secretion in the drainage bottle was added to fluid retention established by sonographic volumetric analysis.
The degree of personal impairment was estimated by a visual analogue score.
Inflammation parameters were recorded as well as the rate of complications.
The drain group showed significantly increased fluid production in comparison to the group without drains on the 1st postoperative day (36.0 vs. 2.5 ml).
Wound sepsis was found in two patients in the drain group.
Seven patients with drains and eight patients without underwent percutaneous seroma puncture.
The drain only slightly affected personal impairment (25.6 % vs 21.4 %, visual analogue score).
Body temperature was elevated in the drain group on the 3rd day after operation (37.2 vs 36.7  °C).
We believe there is no indication for the routine use of a Redon drain in the repair of a primary inguinal hernia.
Instead, percutaneous puncture of subcutaneous fluid retentions should be performed.
We report on three arterial thromboses of the external iliac artery following total hip replacement.
As a result of implanted cement/spongiosa or protrusion of the acetabular component, the iliac vessels were compressed.
Furthermore, we report about one intraoperative arterial vessel lesion in a 65-year-old patient during a revision operation.
We recommend that in case of acute ischemic syndromes of lower limbs following total hip replacement, an angiography should be performed in order to exclude an extravascular cause of thrombosis.
For therapy in those cases extra-anatomic bypasses should be preferred to thrombectomies.
One of the most important occupations of manual therapists is the treatment of hypomobilities of intervertebral joints.
Such hypomobilities of the spine are treated with different kind of manipulations or mobilisations.
The pathophysiological basis of hypomobilities is subject of discussion.
Objective criteria for the diagnosis of disturbed spinal mobility are missing.
They are not detectable in X-ray, computertomography or NMR.
In this article, we report on a family in which five examined members showed clinical signs of Fechtner syndrome, a condition which consists of hearing loss (49%), macrothrombocytopenia (100%), leukocyte inclusion bodies (100%), eye anomalies (54.3%), and nephritis (38.7%).
This article describes how tissue culture has developed from an observing method to a powerful analytical technique for oncology and for pathological cell changes such as metabolic disorders and degenerative diseas es.
Standard terms are defined and basic methods are explained.
Different models of in vitro culture - monolayer, three-dimensional tumor cultures, and organ cultures - are critically reviewed in respect of their significance for the interpret ation of in vivo tissue.
Two important recent extensions of tissue culture, serum-free cell culture and the introduction of genetic material into cells, are described.
The objective of this prospective, randomised study was to investigate the incidence of postoperative nausea and/or vomiting (PONV) during the first 24 h postoperatively.
For a quality assurance study on PONV, we compared two established general anaesthetic procedures in 239 patients undergoing four different types of surgery (subtotal thyroidectomy, laparotomy for gynaecological procedures, laparoscopy, and surgery for extra-abdominal procedures).
The historical opinion that the intima layer of a ruptured artery of muscular type could stop bleeding by "rolling in" should be controlled experimentally.
Five segments of human femoral/popliteal artery (3-4 cm long) were overstretched until complete rupture occured.
Furthermore a longitudinally split and a partially oblique incised segment were ruptured.
As morphological findings a sandclock deformity was observed in the region of rupture.
This phenomenon was induced by adventitia layer, which closed the ends of ruptured media layer like a Chinese finger trap.
In the longitudinally split segment a transverse rupture of the media layer could be observed, while the fibers of adventitia layer were pulled out when the traction was continued.
Neither macroscopical nor microscopical signs could be found for "rolling in" of intima or media layer.
The reason for spontaneous hemostasis after arterial rupture is more likely the activation of platelets by collagenous fibers of adventitia layer than "rolling in" of intima or media layer.
If there is no finger trap mechanism of adventitia layer like in shot- or stabwounds a massive blood loss must be expected.
Time and again a lack of staff in the field of people's nursing is discussed (chronic lack of nursing staff); this means that there are not enough people to do the available work) (1).
However, the time factor is also an important sociological dimension in old people's stationary care.
First of all, this article points out the time dimension throughout life.
This is followed by people's varying perceptions of the present and the related upsets and misunderstandings.
Hereby the contradictory abundance and limitation in time as felt by the elderly also becomes apparent.
The old people's awareness of the dwindling remainder of their own lifespans conflicts with the seemingly endless time of each day that passes.
Intravascular ultrasound (IVUS) has evolved to a research tool to an intrinsic part of modern invasive cardiology.
The main reason is the capability to obtain "in-vivo" micro anatomy by means of miniaturized echo-transducers with an outer diameter of 2.9-3.5 French.
For the first time it is possible to base decisions not only on lumenograms but also on vessel wall assessment.
The capabilities of IVUS can be divided in its diagnostic and intervention associated potentials.
The diagnostic strength of IVUS is the ability to monitor compensatory coronary artery enlargement as a response to arteriosclerosis, to assess intermediate lesions, to reveal occult left main stem disease, and angiographically "silent" arteriosclerosis.
In conjunction with the estimation of intracoronary flow reserve, patients with the diagnosis of coronary "syndrome X" can be better classified into those with or without early signs of arteriosclerosis.
Additionally, IVUS is at present the only method allowing the classification of coronary artery lesions according to the AHA/ACC Stary classification.
Introduction: The chronic exertional compartment syndrome of the musculus tibialis anterior is thought to be responsible for a major part of complaints of the lower leg among active sportsmen.
There is an important role of tissue pressure measurement in diagnosing chronic anterior compartment syndrome during muscular activity.
However, there is a controversial debate about the relevant parameters.
The development of frontal sinuses following bilateral fronto-orbital advancement is a topic of controversial discussion in the literature.
In a retrospective study on 33 patients (15 girls and 18 boys) the development of the frontal sinus was examined radiologically.
Only patients with a minimum age of 6 years and with at least 1 year of postoperative follow-up were included.
The radiological reference for the frontal sinus development consisted of pneumatisation at or above the level of the supraorbital rims, as projected in postero-anterior cephalograms.
According to these criteria a frontal sinus development was seen in 72.7% of our patients.
There was no statistically proven correlation between sinus development and the sex of the patient, age at surgery or the amount of advancement.
With the exception of severe cases of Crouzon's disease we usually expect normal development of the frontal sinus following bilateral fronto-orbital correction.
Failures after ankle arthrodesis are, according to the literature and our own experience, more frequently seen with external fixation than with internal fixation methods.
Favourable results can be obtained with the standard four-screw technique, preservation of the ankle and the biomechanical axes seeing only one non-union in 44 own cases with this technique.
A vital X-ray imaging technique in oral and craniomaxillofacial surgery is the panoramic X-ray.
Due to its variety of special projections, including imaging of the transversal level and low exposure to radiation, it is suitable for answering many clinical questions and for diagnostics of various findings.
It has become possible to minimize the necessary doses by further development of technology and devices, as well as of X-ray films and by new detection systems, such as sensors or screens.
In some clinical cases, the diagnostic deficiencies of conventional imaging techniques make computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance (MR) imaging indispensable.
Although MR is particularly suitable for soft tissue imaging, it has also become helpful in finding cortical changes by shorter measuring times.
In certain cases, e. g., changes to bone metabolism, differentiated methods of nuclear medicine make image-aided analysis of function possible.
Secondary haematogenous joint involvement is seen in less than 1 % of patients with Salmonella infections.
These atypical infections are frequently encouraged by pre-existing local or systemic disease.
We present a case of a patient with known alcohol abuse who developed a septic infection of her right hip requiring resection of the femoral head.
Histologic analysis showed signs of pre-existing osteonecrosis probably induced by alcohol intake.
Cartilage and bone were invaded and destructed by an aggressive granulation tissue.
Initially, a biopsy evaluated without knowledge of the positive bacteriological result had been interpreted as indicative of a tumour.
The onset, clinical course, diagnosis and therapy of joint involvement by Salmonella are discussed with regard to our case and the relevant literature.
This case illustrates the necessity for clinicians to share all their information about the patient with the pathologist.
There are two types of diabetes mellitus.
Type I, insulin-dependent diabetes (IDDM), which becomes manifest before the age of 40, is the result of an absolute deficiency of insulin.
Type II, the non-insulin-dependent diabetes (NIDDM), develops in the elderly and is caused by a relative insulin deficiency.
Patients with type-I diabetes are prone to the development of ketoacidosis, while type II causes hyperglycaemic, hyperosmolar, nonketotic coma.
Apart from these acute metabolic alterations, the long-term complications of diabetes are of concern to the anaesthesiologist.
Hypertension, coronary artery disease, renal insufficiency and autonomic neuropathy are common and can result in myocardial ischaemia, cardiovascular instability and gastroparesis, with an increased risk of aspiration.
Limited movement of the atlanto-occipital joint can cause difficult intubation.
To avoid perioperative metabolic catastrophy, blood glucose concentration should be kept between 6.7 and 10 mmol - l-1 (120 - 180 mg - dl-1).
Hypoglycaemia can result in neurological damage, whereas hyperglycaemia causes impaired wound healing and susceptibility to infections and worsens ischaemic damage to the myocardium and brain.
Perioperative diabetes management depends on the severity of the surgical procedure and the type of diabetes.
All type-I diabetics, whatever operation being performed, need insulin.
The intravenous route is recommended as it allows better adjustment.
After determination of the fasting blood glucose level, insulin is given at a dosage of 0.5 - 1 U - h-1 (at gluc<11.1 mmol - l-1), 1.5 - 2 U - h-1 (at gluc 11.1 - 16.7 mmol - l-1) or 3  U - h-1 (at gluc>16.7 mmol - l-1).
In addition, 5 - 10 g glucose - h-1 is given.
In type-II diabetes the oral antidiabetic drug is withheld.
During minor surgery the blood glucose concentration is monitored frequently, and if necessary insulin (with gluc>13.9 mmol - l-1) or glucose is given.
In most cases of major surgery insulin therapy will be necessary.
Administration should follow the guidelines listed for type-I diabetes.
Whether the intravenous or the subcutaneous route is used for insulin, repeated glucose determinations are mandatory.
If ketoacidosis develops the volume depletion is treated with normal saline.
For hyperglycaemia and acidosis insulin (3 - 6 U - h-1) with 10 - 20 mmol - h-1 potassium phosphate is given.
Bicarbonate is only indicated when the serum pH is lower than 7.1.
It must be borne in mind that perioperative management of diabetes does not end with postanaesthesia care.
At the beginning of the 19 th century, institutional care for the insane was established by the various German states.
At first, the separation of curable and incurable patients influenced psychiatric care and the construction of hospitals.
The combination of care and cure in one hospital in Illenau was a turning point in institutional care.
Contradictory tendencies characterized the second half of the 19 th century: the integration with general medicine in the cities, on the one hand, the social separation and cure in the seclusion of the countryside, on the other.
The characteristic psychiatric construction in different countries was influenced by individual architects.
The following building styles were dominant: in England, panoptic architecture; in the United States, linear staggered structures; in France, the "carrés isolés"; and in Germany, the structure of blocks with cross-axes.
At the end of the 19 th century, the system of pavilions was internationally accepted; occupational therapy and mental care in the countryside were introduced.
From the First World War until the end of the 1960 s, a standstill in psychiatric buildings was noted in Germany, and institutional care came under increasing criticism.
There was a reorientation from the middle of the 1970 s as a result of more effective therapeutic possibilities.
A variety of complementary institutions, outpatient and partly inpatient therapies, which were recommended by the "Psychiatrie-Enquête", started to be realized.
Smaller units and different models of integration of psychiatric care, such as building the hospital next to a general hospital or psychiatric wards within a general hospital, became relevant criteria for planning the construction of psychiatric hospitals, as did the integration into the community and the city.
Principles of organization like the construction of a communicative quiet inner room, or grading the rooms from public to private, were structurally integrated.
Specific structural requirements for the construction and design of psychiatric hospitals should be evaluated in more detail by post-occupancy methods.
The coronal incision is a versatile approach to midface or skull base fractures.
It allows the open reduction of complex fracture sites and facilitates canthopexy, marginotomy or calvarian bone harvesting.
By this method, primary treatment can be optimised and the rate of secondary corrective surgery can be reduced.
All trauma patients who underwent this kind of intervention were re-examined to check functional and aesthetic results.
The complication rate was low and the advantages of these techniques are evident, so that it is suggested that the indication for this operative approach should be extended.
One case of a newly described, rare odontogenic tumor is reported.
A literature review of 19 cases lends support to the odontogenic origin and metastatic capability, both regionally and distantly, of the clear cell odontogenic tumor.
We conclude that this tumor is malignant, with a tendency to recur locally after surgery.
It requires an aggressive surgical approach and should be referred to as a clear cell odontogenic carcinoma.
In our patient we saw a clear cell odontogenic carcinoma and a squamous cell carcinoma, both with regional lymph node metastasis.
The histological differentiation of this type of tumor from other clear cell tumors is difficult.
As the elderly segment of our population expands, there is an increase of therapeutic problems considering this age group.
The elderly patient is generally susceptible to infections because of the decline in host defense mechanisms that occurs with aging, and the underlying chronic diseases of these patients.
Increasing numbers of elderly people are being treated in hospitals and are additionally at particular risk of acquiring nosocomial infections with antibiotic-resistant organisms.
This article focuses on the epidemiological considerations, risk factors, types of infections that occur in elderly patients, and the guidelines for empiric therapy.
The most common infections of the elderly are respiratory tract infection, urinary tract infection, and skin and soft tissue infection.
Empirical therapy should be broader in spectrum for elderly patients since the variety of infecting bacteria tends to be greater and the choice of antimicrobial therapy must be based on risk stratification (age, medical illnesses, and severity of presentation).
Many additional aspects, e.g., route of administration, drug pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, drug toxicity and drug-drug interactions, compliance, and multiple underlying diseases (e.g., renal failure) must be considered in the rational selection of antibiotic regimen.
We present long-term results (minimum follow-up 5 years) in 145 patients with advanced non-seminomatous germ cell tumours, who underwent radical retroperitoneal lymphadenectomy (RPLA) after chemotherapy.
We correlated patients' outcomes (death of disease) to different kinds of chemotherapy and to intraoperative findings.
We found that patients who were treated by a modified Einhorn scheme with cisplatin, etoposide and bleomycin have a good prognosis.
In all, 90 % showed no evidence of disease (NED).
The NED rate was significantly lower in patients who were treated by sequential alternative chemotherapy (DOD = 37 %).We determined the following prognostic factors which predict a poor outcome:...
Follow-up studies after stent implantation of native coronary arteries have reported reduced rates of angiographic restenosis.
In contrast, stent implantation in the treatment of obstructive disease of coronary artery bypass grafts is complicated by higher restenosis rates.
We sought to determine, if different predictors contribute to the high restenosis rate following stent implantation of coronary artery bypass grafts.
We investigated long-term angiographic outcome of 205 stent implantations performed in 177 patients.
Multivariate analysis correlated clinical, procedural and angiographic variables with the incidence of angiographic restenosis defined as diameter stenosis >50% at follow-up.
Angiographic restenosis was observed in 34% of lesions treated.
Multiple logistic regression analysis defined diabetes mellitus (OR 6.89, CI2.41-9.69), graft recanalization (OR 2.69, CI 1.08-6.63), lesion at the aortic anastomosis (OR6.98, CI2.76-19.25), lesion at the coronary anastomosis (OR 2.95, CI1.18-7.49), high diameter stenosis after stent placement (OR 7.01, CI 2.64-15.71), placement of long stents (OR2.78, CI1.11-7.36) and implantation of more than one stent (OR7.34, CI2.08-20.15) as independent predictors of graft in-stent restenosis.
Critical consideration of these variables may help to identify patients who are poor candidates for stent implantation and who may benefit from different interventional approaches.
To compare the conventional 2-D, the simulator-guided semi-3-D and the recently developed CT-guided 3-D brachytherapy treatment planning in the interstitial radiotherapy of breast cancer.
In 103 patients with T1-2, N0-1 breast cancer the tumor bed was clipped during breast conserving surgery.
Fifty-two of them received boost brachytherapy after 46 to 50 Gy teletherapy and 51 patients were treated with brachytherapy alone via flexible implant tubes.
Single, double and triple plane implant was used in 6, 89 and 8 cases, respectively.
The dose of boost brachytherapy and sole brachytherapy prescribed to dose reference points was 3 times, 4.75 Gy and 7 times 5.2 Gy, respectively.
The positions of dose reference points varied according to the level (2-D, semi-3-D and 3-D) of treatment planning performed.
The treatment planning was based on the 3-D reconstruction of the surgical clips, implant tubes and skin points.
In all cases the implantations were planned with a semi-3-D technique aided by simulator.
In 10 cases a recently developed CT-guided 3-D planning system was used.
The semi-3-D and 3-D treatment plans were compared to hypothetical 2-D plans using dose-volume histograms and dose non-uniformity ratios.
The values of mean central dose, mean skin dose, minimal clip dose, proportion of underdosaged clips and mean target surface dose were evaluated.
The accuracy of tumor bed localization and the conformity of planning target volume and treated volume were also analyzed in each technique.
With the help of conformal semi-3-D and 3-D brachytherapy planing we could define reference dose points, active source positions and dwell times individually.
This technique decreased the mean skin dose with 22.2% and reduced the possibility of geographical miss.
We could achieve the best conformity between the planning target volume and the treated volume with the CT-image based 3-D treatment planning, at the cost of worse dose homogeneity.
The mean treated volume was reduced by 25.1% with semi-3-D planning, however, it was increased by 16.2% with 3-D planning, compared to the 2-D planning.
The application of clips into the tumor bed and the conformal (semi-3-D and 3-d) planning help to avoid geographical miss.
CT is suitable for 3-D brachytherapy planning.
Better local control with less side effects might be achieved with these new techniques.
Conformal 3-D brachytherapy calls for new treatment planning concepts, taking the irregular 3-D shape of the target volume into account.
The routine clinical application of image-based 3-D brachytherapy is a real aim in the very close future.
Background: Staphylococci represent an important source of external infections of the eye.
In addition to acute staphylococcal conjunctivitis a spectrum of subacute or chronic disease may be found.
According to Valenton und Okumoto, with this staphylococci-associated blepharo-kerato-conjunctivitis in culture-positive cases S. aureus is found in 31% and S. epidermidis in 69% of smears.
Microbiallergic and toxic mechanisms are the underlying etiology.
Multiple organ failure (MOF) may occur early or late after trauma.
Besides direct physical injury of organs, compromise of the microcirculation by inflammation plays an important role in the pathogenesis of MOF.
Inflammation also induces counterregulatory responses which may end up in immunoparalysis.
As a result, infection and sepsis with additional inflammatory damage to the microcirculation ensue thereby contributing to the late development of MOF.
In addition to this biphasic model of posttraumatic MOF, there is evidence that inflammation and immunoparalysis do not only occur in sequence to each other but in parallel early after surgical procedures.
The aim of the present brief review is to summarize the posttraumatic mechanisms of inflammation and immunoparalysis and to discuss how to differentiate between both pathophysiologic states.
Early enteral nutrition is widely accepted for its support of organ structure and function ("gut injury hypothesis") and reduction of infectious complications and hypermetabolism in critically ill postoperative or postinjury patients.
Nineteen severely injured patients (Injury Severity Score 40.3+/-11.6) were studied for the feasibility of early enteral nutrition via a duodenal feeding tube.
Despite maxillary fractures, rhinoliquorrhea and blunt abdominal trauma the enteral feeding was mostly started immediately after trauma.
Intermittent diarrhea or constipation resolved after reduction of the feeding rate within 1 or 2 days.
Total enteral nutrition could not be realized in all cases; a central venous line was always additionally necessary.
However, the goal was not complete enteral nutrition but a continuous enteral supply to maintain the integrity of the gut.
The study has shown that early enteral nutrition via a duodenal feeding tube is also feasible in severely injured patients.
The expenditure to overcome the technical and organizational problems seems to be justified.
Enterally fed patients may have a better outcome that those in whom only parenteral is employed.
Definition of the problem: The rapid pace of medical progress has drawn renewed attention to the various possible ways of treating dead or brain-dead pregnant women since the 1980's.
The discussion today revolves around medical, social, legal and economic aspects.
The historical areas of conflict which surrounded deliveries carried out on dead mothers (usually by means of a Sectio in mortua, nowadays known as a perimortem Caesarean section) and their significance in today's debate are, for the most part, regarded as being of little relevance.
Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (PCP) is one of the most frequent infectious lung diseases in immunocompromised patients, especially in AIDS cases.
The present case report describes pulmonary miliary microcalcifications with and without foreign-body reaction in a patient with successfully treated PCP who was known to have AIDS.
This form of residues of completely healed PCP tends to be rare.
Other infectious granulomas, foreign-body granulomas and sarcoidosis must be differentially diagnosed.
After cautious decalcification, pneumocysts can be demonstrated with methamine silver (Grocott).
It is important to be aware that PCP can also undergo spontaneous cure, so that miliary microcalcifications may then be the sole pointer to the presence of AIDS.
Background: In congenital adrenal hyperplasia due to 21-hydroxylase deficiency high pre- and postnatal androgen levels are present and might influence psychosexual and psychosocial development in affected girls.
Methods: In order to study the impact of high androgen levels as well as chronic medication and repeated surgery on female patients life we performed a comprehensive quality-of-life study.
We report on the results obtained by structured interviews of adult patients (45) and their mothers (35) covering difficulties and problems in general, most aspects of their medical histology, self image, body image and current life with or without a male or female partner.
Results: The patients were socially competent with a well developed social network.
However, regarding sexual contacts they were shy and reluctant.
These resulted in significantly less patients live with a partner or are married.
Existing partnerships were more stable and satisfactory than in the control population.
The incidence of homosexuality was not increased.
The number of women having children was significantly reduced.
A substantial number of women suffered from androgen-dependent problems like irrgular menses and hirsutism.
Mothers and patients denied any sex-specific eduction, but the girls had preferred boy-specific toys and competitive outdoor games.
However, school performance was average and comparable to the controls.
Most mothers expressed problems and questions regarding their daughters intersexuality at birth.
Even though they felt they had received good medical treatment, mothers as well as patients felt they would have needed more psychological help.
Conclusions: It seems that adult female patients with congenital adrenal hyperplasia are able to adapt to their impairment and chronic disease.
Problems regarding partnership, sexuality, and fertility remain and have to be addressed.
Introduction: Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) has become an accepted treatment for end-stage liver disease.
However, postoperative complications result in significant patient morbidity and mortality.
Early detection and treatment of these complications is therefore of utmost importance.
Materials and methods: We retrospectively reviewed the postoperative complications of the patients who underwent OLT at our institution.
Duplex Doppler sonography and cholangiography were the primary imaging modalities in postoperative evaluation of the transplanted liver.
Other important techniques were CT, MRI, and angiography, which may contribute to a reliable diagnosis of vascular or biliary complications.
Results: Second to primary organ dysfunction, vascular complications are the most frequent cause of graft loss.
Thrombosis of the hepatic artery is the most common and most serious vascular complication, with a reported incidence from 4 to 42 %.
Bile duct sludge, leaks and strictures are frequent complications after liver transplantation, which can contribute to graft dysfunction.
Biliary tract complications usually occur within the first 3 months and require interventional radiological or surgical therapy.
Since liver transplant recipients undergo immunosuppressive therapy, they are at increased risk of developing late post-transplant malignancies, which are best depicted by US, CT or MRI.
However, radiological diagnosis of lymphoproliferative disorder has to be confirmed by liver biopsy.
Conclusion: Cholangiography and Duplex sonography are routinely used in the postoperative evaluation of patients with OLT.
CT, MRI, and angiography are problem-solving tools in equivocal cases.
Recurrence of colorectal carcinomas occurs in about 50 % of the cases with localized neoplasia.
It is understood that the tumor recurrence is due to residual micrometastases not found during surgery or extraregional (peripheral blood or bone marrow).
We developed a procedure to detect non-visible, abdominal metastases using a radiolabeled anti-tumor cell antibody injected before the operation (radioimmunoguided surgery, RIGS).
However, even with the best technique, it is not possible to remove all micrometastasis if a hematogenic dissemination happens.
Based on the knowledge of disturbing humoral immune reaction is mounted against shed tumor associated antigens (TAA), we developed a new method to reduce and correct the B cell response and B cell recruitment due to chronic TAA immun complex presentation on follicular dendritic cells (immune corrective surgery, ICS).
This method is based on a selective lymphadenectomy.
The target lymph nodes were those loaded with TAA-immune complex.
The detection method used was the injection of radiolabeled antibody able to recognize the immune complex.
From 20 patients (stage I, II and III) treated with ICS, 17 survived more than 5 years ' showing a statistically significant increase of survival compared to patients treated with standard procedures.
In conclusion, these data show that surgery of colorectal cancer should be selectively extended to specific anatomical regions in order to remove hidden micrometastases, and more importantly, correct postoperative immune processes that could suppress the T cell response against residual tumor cells.
Knowledge of normal and impaired pulmonary gas exchange is essential to the anaesthesiologist.
Analysis of an arterial blood sample allows evaluation of whether or not pulmonary gas exchange is normal.
For this purpose comparison with the oxygenation index or the alveolar-arterial PO2 difference is helpful.
Pathological changes of these variables are mainly caused by ventilation-perfusion (V.A/Q.)
In daily practice, venous admixture or intrapulmonary shunt can be calculated using arterial and mixed-venous blood.
By analysing arterial and expired PCO2, dead-space ventilation can be determined, but extended analyses of V.A/Q.
distribution are not possible in daily practice.
However, knowledge of the principles of typical disturbances of pulmonary gas exchange in acute and chronic lung disease allows the use of therapeutic strategies based on the pathophysiological changes.
Background: Infectious endocarditis can lead to embolic arterial retinal occlusions.
The case of a 30 year old man with acatalasemia is presented.
The congenital disorder  is charaterized by a lack or major reduction of catalase, an enzyme that catalyzes the decomposition of hydrogen peroxide to oxygen and water.
The defect is inherited in an autosomal recessive fashion.
Occasionally the defect manifests as progressive oral gangrene or Takahara's, disease.
Poor longterm success has been reported for penile vein ligation the last few years.
Therefore, we decided to re-investigate our group of 147 patients who were operated on between 1987 and 1996.
All patients showed a negative response to intracavernous injection therapy at the time of diagnosis and revealed a maintenance flow > 15 ml/min, as well as a pathological venous flow with pharmacocavernosometry or pharmacocavernosography.
These patients underwent ligation of all superficial dorsal veins and resection of the deep dorsal vein of the penis.
An up-to-date record of the success of the operation was kept either by a renewed clinical visit or by a standardized telephone interview or questionnaire.
A total of 126 patients were available here for long-term follow-up.
We divided the findings into three groups: complete spontaneous erection, postoperative response to cavernous auto-injection therapy and no changes in erectile competency postoperatively.
The short-term success rate for these groups after 1-3 months was an outcome of 31 (24.6 %), 25 (19.8 %) and 70 (55.6 %) patients; 86 % of the cases whose results deteriorated after the initial operation success rate had this happen within the first postoperative year (p K 0.001).
Favorable prognostic factors were preoperative erectile dysfunction of K 7 years, a normal CC-EMG and a maintenance flow of K 45 ml/min.
If all three parameters were present, the long-term success rate (spontaneous erection plus response to intracavernous injection) of 30 % of all patients was found to rise to 67 % in this selected group of patients (p K 0.001).
This study reveals that long-term success for unselected patients undergoing penile venous surgery is disappointing; however, careful selection of patients by certain prognostic factors can improve long-term results.
Pyoderma gangraenosum can cause great therapeutic problems.
High dosed corticosteroids are the treatment of choice.
However, recalcitrant pyoderma gangraenosum or side effects from corticosteroid treatment may require therapeutic alternatives.
Pyoderma gangraenosum responds excellently to treatment with cyclosporine A.
Because of side effects and drug interactions, the patients must be selected and carefully and closely monitored.
Six patients with pyoderma gangraenosum, unresponsive to various topical and systemic therapies, were treated with oral cyclosporine A at mean daily doses of approximately 3 mg/kg.
Marked improvement of the skin lesions and complete healing occurred in all patients over a period of 3-6 months.
Only one patient suffered a relapse after discontinuation of the treatment.
No severe irreversible side effects occurred.
The results show that low-dose cyclosporine A treatment can be considered a first-line treatment of pyoderma gangraenosum.
Medical treatment of injured patients by international missions of non-governmental organisations in crisis areas and out-of-area operations by troops, and also national disasters require special trauma management.
Deviations from peacetime surgical guidelines are obligatory because of long-distance medical evacuation, the possibility of gaps in supply and the typical pattern of war injuries.
Massive contamination combined with the high risk of infection is one typical attribute of wounds inflicted during a war or a disaster.
In contrast to peacetime surgical guidelines, aggressive wound débridement is often needed.
Timely and prophylactically prescription of a broad-spectrum antibiotic with a long half-life has great importance in the treatment of these wounds.
Suitable antibiotics for these indications are: piperacillin/tazobactam and ceftriazon.
Nevertheless the use of antimicrobial agents will only be effective with early surgical débridement.
Craniofacial development may be potentially implicated after vault corrections in cases of craniosynostosis.
The aim of this prospective study was the investigation of the surgical effect on calvaria growth, correlating the percentiles of a group of patients before and after craniosynostosis correction in relation to the normal percentiles of growth.
The patient population consisted of 71 children; the postoperative follow-up time in 57 patients was more than 12 months.
Of the children followed up, 36 were male and 21 female.
Thirty-six cases involved untreated non-syndromic craniosynostosis; the remaining 21 were syndrome cases.
The patient ages ranged from 16 to 27 months.
In 11 cases correction of an occipital craniosynostosis was carried out.
The fronto-occipital circumference was registered in accordance with Prader's percentile table.
The operative method included a fronto-parietal craniotomy, the temporary removal and shaping of the fronto-orbital band and a vault cranioplasty.
During follow-up 13 patients treated with fronto-orbital advancement in cases of isolated craniosynostosis remained in the registered percentile curve.
In 13 patients a change to a lower percentile curve was confirmed; 1 patient changed to a higher curve.
In cases of syndromic craniosynostosis 10 patients remained in the post-operatively registered percentile curve; 8 patients changed to a lower and 1 patient to a higher percentile curve.
No growth restriction of the reshaped calvaria after surgical correction of craniosynostosis was observed.
No significant difference was found in the potential calvaria growth between syndromic and isolated craniosynostosis.
Today a large number of operative procedures on retroperitoneal organs can be performed using minimally invasive techniques.
The retroperitoneal space can be reached laparoscopically through the peritoneal cavity or by the direct retroperitoneoscopic approach.
The correct anatomical placement of the first trocar is of particular importance in procedures with the patient in lateral decubitus position in order to avoid injuries.
The overview is worse than in conventional surgery because of the magnifying effect of the laparoscope, which is, furthermore, positioned very close to the operative field.
It is therefore of great importance for the surgeon to use anatomical structures for orientation.
The decisive anatomical aspects and landmarks in different minimally invasive operations on retroperitoneal organs are outlined.
Lipid peroxidation is considered a prominent feature of age-related retinal degeneration.
It is known that lipid peroxides can oxidize benzidine.
This property was used to localize lipid peroxides ultrastructurally in the retina.
In a 73 year-old male patient with generalized atherosclerosis, known infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm, renal artery stenosis, and coronary artery disease, an aneurysm of the proximal left subclavian artery was successfully excluded by implantation of a JOSTENTTM-Peripheral stent graft.
Angiographic follow up after 6 and 12 months showed an excellent outcome with complete exclusion of the aneurysm.
Intravascular ultrasound showed no neo-intimal hyperplasia within the stent.
A computed tomography revealed complete thrombosis of the aneurysm.
Based upon our increasing knowledge of mechanisms underlying tissue destruction in RA patients, new therapeutic principles have been developed, aimed at blocking proinflammatory cytokines or using antiinflammatory cytokines.
Both principles, however, have proven to be very effective.
In addition, the availability of the methodology to transduce cells with genes has initiated first experiments in animal models to test whether gene therapy for arthritis is suitable, followed by a first, very carefully formulated protocol for human RA.
Gene therapy for RA has to still be considered as an experimental form of therapy in a very early stage, not allowing even now any serious treatment offer to RA patients.
Several problems, such as the question of a suitable vector system have not yet been solved.
With more experiments this therapeutic principle might become available and might prove effective even in a disease with a systemic character like RA in the coming years.
In the case of typical whiplash after low- energy rear-end collision we recommend a clear and structured therapeutic regimen to overcome and prevent neuromuscular deficits.
Patients with bony and discoligamentous lesions have to be excluded, as well as patients with distinct neurologic deficits.
A therapeutic rationale is the basis of full neuromuscular recovery ad integrum.
The news of success in ether anesthesia on 16 October 1846 in Boston spread like wildfire through Europe.
In the German-speaking countries, the national newspapers as conveyers of the development played a prominent role; this was especially the case for the Augsburger Allgemeine Zeitung whose correspondent, Aloys Martin [1], was a medical professional.
The function of local newspapers has not yet been investigated.
This was to be remedied by examining both of Bamberg's local papers.
All issues from 01.01. to 31.04.1847 were surveyed with respect to relevant announcements.
These were then catalogued according to date, extent and contents.
Starting on 22.01.1847, the events outside of and in Bamberg were reported on in 26 notices and articles of just a few lines to half a page and in advertisements; Aloys Martin also appears on the scene.
Thus, the local press in Bamberg also informed its readers early and regularly on the discovery of ether and the succeeding events.
True arterial aneurysms of the infrapopliteal vessels are a rare finding.
During surgical treatment of convergent aneurysms of the popliteal artery and the tibiofibular trunk we discovered a complete spontaneous rupture of the thrombotic aneurysm of the right tibiofibular trunk.
We describe the special features of diagnosis, histology, and the surgical treatment of aneurysms of the crural arteries.
We recommend that even asymptomatic aneurysms be electively operated on to prevent further complications.
Dementia is going to be one of the major challenges of the next century for our societies due to the enormous burden on the health care systems.
Dementia is the major cause of death and the most important risk factor for disability and entry into a nursing home in elderly people.
Moreover, because of the progress in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, in particular with the cholinesterase inhibitors, demented people will be more often and detected earlier by general practitioners and families.
Nowadays operative sperm retrieval in connection with assisted reproduction is a well-established procedure in urological-gynecological cooperative groups.
Microsurgical epididymal sperm aspiration (MESA) and testicular sperm extraction (TESE) are the fundamental procedures in cases of non-reconstructable obstructive azoospermia or testicular azoospermia.
As they are often favored percutaneous techniques such as percutaneous epididymal sperm aspiration (PESA) or percutaneous testicular sperm extraction (PTESE), need to be in Anglo-American countries and the countries of northern Europe, discussed regarding their efficacy (number of retrieved spermatozoa) and possible testicular injury due to blind or ultrasound-guided puncture.
In Middle Franconia, one of the larger Bavarian administrative division (population 1994: 1,657,101), the number of patients suffering from cancer pain, chronic headache and chronic back pain is not known.
Furthermore, there are no data on interdisciplinary organization of outpatient pain management.
A 34-year-old HIV-infected African woman developed fever, weight loss and widespread papules on her trunk, arms and face.
Skin biopsy and culture revealed histoplasmosis caused by Histoplasma capsulatum varietas capsulatum (American histoplasmosis).
Even though antimycotic treatment and intensive care were started immediately the patient died because of the systemic mycosis within a few days.
Histoplasmosis is a rare disease in Europe but endemic in some areas of the USA (e.g.
Ohio, Mississippi) and of Africa.
Additionally histoplasma capsulatum varietas duboisii is endemic in Central and South Africa.
As a consequence of scientific advances, an increasing number of patients with advanced age, reduced myocardial performance, previous cardiac surgery, comorbidities, and emergency indications are referred for cardiac surgery.
This requires risk stratification to predict "low", "moderate", and "high" operative risk.
Risk factors can be divided into pre-, intra-, and postoperative patient-, structure-, and procedure-related.
On the basis of this risk prediction, the perioperative course can be optimized by an individually tailored multiprofessional and interdisciplinary management.
Unnoticed, minor damage to the unidirectional respiratory valves of the Draeger respiratory circuit may lead to intermittent and unpredictable malfunction, resulting in rebreathing and hypercapnia.
The damage may be so minor that normal visual and functional test routines may be insufficient to detect it.
We report one case of a potential life-threatening malfunction of the inspiratory valve and also propose economical solutions utilizing altered construction, modified machine-check procedures, or a simple instrument that adds only one step to the machine-check procedure.
The general problem of minor but functionally important damage to parts of ventilatory equipment - so-called borderline damage - may not be limited to this particular model or manufacturer.
Most users of ventilatory equipment believe that equipment that goes through normal check procedures is either fully functional or non-functional.
In reality, this is not the case.
Intermittent malfunctions due to slightly damaged equipment may be missed with normal machine-check procedures.
This problem results in a significant but incalculable increased in risk to patients.
Because of unclear reproduceability of intermittent malfunctions caused by borderline damage, there also is an increased forensic risk for the anaesthesiologist.
The risk of mechanical malfunction might be displaced by software problems in new-generation ventilators in the market.
Purpose: To investigate whether the margins of microscopic tumors can be delineated better with monocrystalline iron oxide nanoparticles (MION), a superparamagnetic contrast medium, than with Gd-DTPA by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI).
Nonunion of the ankle malleoli is extremely rare these days.
This is probably due to the fact that primary osteosynthesis is performed in ankle fractures instead of the conservative treatment given up to 20 years ago.
Today nonunions of the malleoli are seen, if at all, is infected cases after surgical procedures.
Noninfected, stable and painless nonunions usually do not need any surgical correction.
In painful cases, small fragments, especially of the medial malleolus, should be resected; larger fragments should be stabilized with two 3.5-mm cancellous screws.
Alternatively, the tension banding technique, especially after Weber A fracture, produces high compression in the area of nonunion.
In cases of additional bony defects, a local upside down cortical-cancellous bone graft should be performed in addition.
In summary, the therapeutic approach requires exact remodeling, bone-grafting and stabilization.
Infected nonunions with loss of bone mass should be treated according to the guidelines for osteitis therapy.
This study investigated the influence of the patients' educational level on indication for and duration of psychotherapy and the choice of treatment methods (psychodynamically oriented psychotherapy or psychoanalysis).
We considered treatments that were conducted within the framework of the statutory health insurance in Germany.
Data were collected from the therapists' case history (n=274), submitted to the first author as an expert of the statutory health insurance companies.
We found a significant relationship between level of education and indication for psychotherapy.
In our sample 43.5% had graduated from senior high school compared with 25.1% in the average German population.
This relationship is getting more clear if we discriminate between psychodynamically oriented psychotherapy and psychoanalysis.
51.7% of the patients undergoing psychoanalysis had graduated from senior high school and only 13.2% from junior high school compared with 48.7% in the average German population.
Also the duration of psychotherapy depends only on the level of education, not on gender, age or type of statutory health insurance.
These results are discussed carefully and questions for further investigations are deduced.
After the initial enthusiasm subsided lasercoagulation of the prostate has been criticized because the extent of tissue destruction cannot be controlled and many patients may be expected to have significant postoperative obstructive as well as irritative voiding symptoms which may last for weeks.
Thanks to new laservaporization techniques these disadvantages have been largely eliminated.
With the Holmium laser a real resection of prostatic tissue is possible allowing the surgeon to see the prostatectomy defect immediately and to assess tissue destruction during the operation ("what you see is what you get").
The postoperative voiding disturbances are diminished and comparable to those after TUR-P.
The classification of acetabular fractures and especially the diagnosis of additional lesions can be misleading, when the personal experience is limited and the decisions are based only on conventional radiographs.
The introduction of Spiral-CT with multiplanar reformations and 3-D views has improved the quality of visualization.
Due to their higher costs, the need of these additional diagnostic tools is frequently questioned.
This paper discusses the relevance of plain radiographs, 2-D-CTs, 3-D-CTs and Femursubtraction-CTs (FsCT) for the classification of acetabular fractures, based on a controlled study.
Methods: Thirty physicians with different levels of experience in acetabular surgery were divided in three groups of 10 each: group I comprised residents without operative experience in acetabular surgery, group II was physicians with 3-10 years of operative experience, and group III was experts in acetabular surgery.
A total of 10 complete radiographic cases of high quality providing all levels of preoperative diagnostics (plain radiographs, 2-D-CT, CT with multiplanar reformation, 3-D-CT, Fs-CT) of different acetabular fracture types were prepared.
The task for each candidate was to classify the fracture according to Letournel and to identify all additional injuries within the hip joint (e. g. marginal impaction, head fractures, etc.).
The different diagnostic "levels" could be ordered stepwise according to personal need and no time limit was given.
The case was finished when the candidate presented his final diagnosis.
The use of the different radiographs, the preliminary diagnosis, the changes in diagnosis, and the final decisions were recorded.
These findings were correlated with the different levels of experience and against a "consensus classification" which was generated by thorough discussion, and the use of intraoperative information and postoperative radiographs not accessible to the candidates.
Results: The "correct" fracture classification based on plain radiographs was: group I, 11 %; group II, 32 %; group III, 61 %.
Based on 2-D-CT a "correct" diagnosis was reached by 30 % in group I, by 55 % in group II, and by 76 % in group III.
With consideration of the "transient forms" in acetabular fractures based on Letournel and the 3-D-CT used mainly by group I, the rate of "correct" classifications rose to 65 % in group I, 64 % in group II and 83 % in group III.
The modifiers were diagnosed "correctly" in group I by 37 %, in group II by 56 %, and in group III by 73 %.
The use of the 3-D-CT and especially the Fs-CT by group I resulted in an improvement in the rate of correct classifications to 61 %, whereas in group II the Fs-Ct was used only exceptionally.
The 2-D-CT was the basis for the diagnosis of the additional lesions in acetabular fractures within all groups resulting in 73 % complete diagnoses in group III.
This study showed the importance of CT for the exact analysis and classification of acetabular fractures.
In particular, the secondary reformations in CT and the 3-D-views dramatically improved the rate of "correct" classifications in the group of surgeons with limited personal experience in acetabular surgery.
This allows the less experienced an acceptable level of "correct" diagnoses, so that the treatment options can be weighed correctly.
Among the "experts" a rate of divergent classifcations of approximately 20 % was observed, especially in "transient" forms of acetabular fractures.
Background: Iridodonesis is the clinical sign of lens subluxation.
Acute glaucoma caused by a ciliolenticular block may develop.
YAG iridotomy or peripheral iridectomy are rarely effective in controlling intraocular pressure.
The results of phacoemulsification and posterior lens implantation for subluxated lens and glaucoma are reported.
Cerebral perfusion reserve may be determined by assessing changes in cerebral blood flow using vasodilators.
Transcranial Doppler (TCD) may be used to measure cerebral blood flow speed in response to such stimuli.
The aim of this study was to analyze cerebral vasoreactivity in patients with high-grade carotid stenosis and to determine the short- and long-term effects of desobliteration.
A total of 40 patients had bilateral preoperative studies done and 24 were re-evaluated 1 year later.
The preoperative vasomotor capacity using TCD with CO2 was 57% +/- 45.
Hemodynamic reserve did not decrease significantly in the early postoperative period on the operated hemisphere, and 1 year later hemodynamic reserve had increased to to 102% +/- 80%.
One year later patients with unilateral stenosis (n=11) presented with a restitution of reactivity to 65% +/- 46% after initial postoperative ipsilateral decrease from 51% +/- 35% to 48% +/- 38%.
Patients with bilateral stenoses (n=9) demonstrated an initial decrease from 70% +/- 60% to 48% +/- 21% and a significant rise to 115% +/- 77% 1 year later (P=0.02).
Both the significant postoperative increase in the cerebral vasomotor capacity in patients with bilateral carotid stenoses registered in both hemispheres and long-term improvement in patients with unilateral stenosis underline the effectivity of carotid desobliteration in antiembolic prophylaxis and in cerebral blood flow increase, irrespective of the symptomatology.
Chronic constipation can be divided in two large groups: slow-transit constipation, caused by pathological intestinal transit, and obstructive defecation disorder, caused by pelvic and rectal wall abnormalities.
Videodefecography and defecoflowmetry are methods used to study dynamic evacuation of the rectum.
Videodefecography also enables visual estimation of rectal evacuation.
Defecoflowmetry allows analysis of anal and rectal pressures.
Within this prospective study we utilized and compared these methods in 19 patients with slow transit and 30 patients with obstructive disease.
In patients with slow transit, both investigations demonstrated a significantly higher defecation rate than in obstructive defecation disorder (slow transit: defecoflowmetry 65 %, videodefecography 80 %; obstructive defecation disorder: 50 % and 58 %).
The evacuation time was pathologically prolonged in both types of constipation, with a range of 43-55 s. Rectoceles are demonstrated in 94 % of cases with slow transit and in 72 % with obstructive defecation disorder.
Also, we often found obstructive components in slow-transit constipation patients.
Normal defecography or defecoflowmetry can rule out obstructive defecation disorder.
We conclude that videodefecography and defecoflowmetry are important items in the complex diagnostic regimen needed in evaluation of chronic constipation.
Absence of the septum pellucidum is a rare developmental disorder of the human brain.
Previous reports focused on the association with other cerebral anomalies.
We present MRI scans showing an isolated absence of the septum pellucidum.
The patient was suffering from a schizophrenic psychosis.
Mental retardation or epileptic seizures, which are often found in more complex developmental brain disorders, were not observed.
The septal area is part of the limbic system and aplasia of the septum pellucidum could indicate developmental anomalies of the limbic system.
The concept of cerebral maldevelopment and the limbic system in schizophrenic psychosis is discussed.
History and clinical findings: A 61 year old man presented with newly developed tachyarrhythmia.
Echocardiographically a tumour of unclear origin in the left atrium was diagnosed.
Investigations: The heart rate in the ECG was arrhythmic at 146/min; intermittently sinus rhythm was established.
Transoesophageal echocardiography revealed a 90x50 mm tumour with sharp borders displacing both atria.
The chest x-ray showed a mediastinal rounded mass in the dorsal part overlapping the right mediastinal border.
Computer tomography was unable to discriminate the atrial wall from the tumour masses; hence the difference between an (intra-)cardiac tumour (i.e.
myxoma) and a tumour of extracardiac (mediastinal) origin could not be established.
Additional magnetic resonance tomography led to the most probable diagnosis of a bronchogenic cyst, which spread ventrally up to the ascending aorta and dorsally to the paravertebral region, thus displacing and shrinking the left pulmonary artery and the left atrium.
Therapy: For certain exclusion of malignancy and because of displacement of other thoracic structures the patient was operated on this mediastinal mass by anterolateral thoracotomy.
Histologically a dysontogenetic, benign cyst with an inner layer of mesothel and nerval as well as vascular structures in the capsule was diagnosed.
Since the operation the patient has persistent sinus rhythm without symptoms of relevant rhythm disorders.
An overview of different kinds of intrathoracical cysts is given.
Longstanding and untreated scaphoid fractures and scapholunate dissociations lead to painful destruction of the wrist with carpal collapse.
The severity of degenerative arthrosis is classified in three stages and can be treated adaequate operatively.
SNAC wrist (scaphoid nonunion advanced collapse) after failed fusion of the scaphoid and SLAC wrist (scapholunate advanced collapse) after scapholunate dissociation should be differentiated.
The reconstruction of the scaphoid or scapholunate ligament in stage II and III is no reasonable option.
Motion preserving procedures such as proximal row carpectomy or midcarpal arthrodesis are preferable in this situation.
Thirty-one male patients (average 41 years) were treated for SNAC or SLAC wrist with midcarpal arthrodesis.
All patients were reexamined, the mean follow-up was 15 months.
Grip strength was measured with the Dexter-System, pain was evaluated by a visual analogue scale (VAS 0-100).
Patients' daily activities and general quality of life were estimated with the DASH-questionnaire.
Pain was reduced to 50% compared to the preoperative situation.
Grip strength improved to 60% of the opposite side.
Active range of motion reached 50% of the contralateral wrist.
Nonunion at the fusion site necessitated additional surgery in four patients resulting in total wrist arthrodesis.
80% of the patients returned to their original occupation.
Midcarpal fusion is a reliable procedure for treating the difficult condition of advanced carpal collapse is proper realignement of the carpus is performed.
The DASH-score reflects the subjective impressions of the patients in daily life and justifies the choice of a salvage procedure preserving wrist mobility.
Total wrist fusion represents the last line of defense.
Stress fractures are one of the most common overuse injuries seen in athletes, accounting for up to 20 % of all injuries presented to sports medicine clinics.
Runners are particularly prone to these injuries, however, it is difficult to predict injury as there is usually a critical interplay between the athlete's biomechanical predisposition, training methods, and other factors such as diet, and muscle strength and flexibility.
This article will discuss the key clinical findings for the majority of stress fractures encountered in a sports medicine practice.
A classification scheme will also be described that will allow the clinician to make appropriate treatment decisions based on the degree of risk for each injury.
Today, enzyme therapy with proteolytic enzymes still only plays a minor role in clinical practice, partially due to the belief that intestinal resorption of macromolecules is impossible.
However, there is scientific evidence of intestinal resorption and a subsequent increase in proteolytic serum activity, and placebo-controlled randomised clinical trials have demonstrated positive effects of enzyme therapy.
The documented effects include the reduction of oedema and resorption of haematoma, resulting in pain reduction and better mobility.
There are indications to use such therapies in the areas of general surgery, traumatology, plastic surgery, and dental surgery.
A further effect is higher tissue concentration of antibiotics in combination with proteolytic enzymes.
In gynaecological treatments, enzymes are administered in breast surgery and to reduce the side effects of obstetrical injuries.
Breast engorgement is a further indication for enzyme therapy.
Further studies concerning enzyme therapy are justified because of the interesting possibilities offered by these substances and a favourable relationship between costs and benefits.
High-frequency ventilation and inhaled nitric oxide represent - among others - two treatment options in hypoxemic respiratory failure of neonates.
We report the case of a term infant with meconium aspiration syndrome, who only responded favorably to inhaled nitric oxide following the initiation of high-frequency ventilation.
At an oxygenation index of 17 we started treatment with nitric oxide in order to reverse right-to-left shunting and improve oxygenation.
How- ever the respiratory situation did not improve, the oxygenation index increased to 25.
After discontinuation of nitric oxide the mode of ventilation was switched to HFV with mean airway pressures of 15 mbar.
Again oxyena-tion was unaffected with an oxygenation index of meanwhile 31.
At that stage of a second trial of inhaled nitric oxide was started at a concentration of 10 ppm while continuing high-frequency ventilation.
Immediately oxygenation improved significantly, the oxygenation index decreased to 9 within several minutes after restarting nitric oxide.
This effect on oxygenation was sustained for the duration of several days during high-frequency ventilation until gradual weaning from iNO could be performed.
Learning microsurgery of the middle ear requires preparations of temporal bones.
Ethical and moral restrictions in obtaining specimens make training and research with temporal bone preparations increasingly more difficult.
Due to the complex structure of the temporal bone with its communicating cavities, the manufacture of facsimiles up to now has been impossible.
Rapid prototyping techniques must be able to produce identical objects from an original one.
By using CT scans of temporal bones from anatomic preparations and patients we have been able to reconstruct 3D pictures on a CAD workstation.
We are now able to incorporate data in a stereolithographic system to create an anatomic facsimile of the temporal bone.
It is possible to produce a considerable number of these facsimiles from the same real object.
With this method we can produce models of human structure for medical teaching, training and research.
Our artificial preparations of temporal bones correspond to both the material characteristics and anatomic details of human structures, allowing various surgical exercises to be carried out.
During the past few years the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, the most frequent of the rheumatic inflammatory systemic diseases has improved a great deal.
The treatment strategy is based on the one hand on the so-called prognostic factors and on the other hand on the extent of the inflammatory activities, especially during the first phase.
Numerous controlled studies and meta-analyses have enabled optimal application of the basic disease-modifying drugs, with regard to efficacy and side effects.
During the first stage of these disease, the immunobiological substances against pro-inflammatory cells are employed.
Improved knowledge of physiotherapeutic treatment, correct diet and careful observation of the patient's progress with the aid of questionnaires enable optimal care with regard to life quality.
Intrinsic positive end-expiratory pressure (PEEPi) occurring during mechanical ventilation depends on expiratory time constants, expiratory volume and expiration time as well as on external flow resistance (tubes, valves, etc.).
It is not routinely determined in mechanically ventilated patients, but it is necessary to optimize respirator settings.
The aim of the present study was the validation of an automated PEEPi determination method implemented in the respirator EVITA (Drägerwerke, Lübeck) in mechanically ventilated patients with acute lung failure.
The method was validated in ten sedated, myorelaxed patients with respiratory insufficiency of different etiologies (five with restrictive, and five with obstructive pulmonary disease).
PEEPi was determined using the volume constant ventilatory mode at ZEEP or at an external PEEP of 5 as well as 10 cm H2O.
PEEPi was first determined with the automated method implemented in the EVITA (five measurements at each end-expiratory pressure level; PEEPEvita).
Steady-state was attained between each measurement.
These values were compared to the results obtained with end-expiratory occlusion (external, computer-controlled valve in the inspiratory limb of the circuit) at the respective pressure levels (PEEPEEO).
The average of five measurements at each PEEP level with each method was defined as PEEPi for the particular ventilatory situation.
Gas flow was measured at the proximal end of the endotracheal tube with a heated pneumotachometer (Fleisch no.
2, Fleisch, Lausanne, Switzerland) and a differential pressure transducer.
Tracheal pressure was determined in the same position with a further differential pressure transducer (Dr. Fenyves & Gut, Basel, Switzerland).
After A/D conversion, data were sampled with a frequency of 20 Hz and processed on an IBM compatible PC.
Software for data collection and processing as well as for control of the occlusion valve was self-programmed.
For the statistical analysis we used the Mann-Whitney U-test or Wilcoxon signed-ranks test; a P value less than 0.05 was considered significant.
At the given respiratory setting and without PEEP patients with obstructive lung disease had a higher PEEPi (median: 6.4 cm H2O; range: 5.0 - 9.6 cm H2O) than those with restrictive pulmonary disease (median: 2.3 cm H2O; range: 0.8 - 3.0 cm H2O) (P<0.05).
Increasing external PEEP to 5 or 10 cm H2O significantly decreased the pressure difference between PEEPi and external PEEP (P<0.05), but was unable to eliminate it completely.
There was no statistically significant difference between PEEPEEO and PEEPEvita (P=0.43; Wilcoxon signed-ranks tests).
Regression analysis showed a highly significant correlation between PEEPEEO and PEEPEvita values (r=0.985, P<0.001; y=1.03x-0.18).
PEEPi occurs during ventilation in patients with obstructive and restrictive lung disease.
The difference between external end-expiratory pressure and PEEPi decreases with increasing external PEEP.
However, PEEPi may increase with increasing external PEEP in some instances.
The reason for this may be that the PEEPi determined at the proximal end of the endotracheal tube represents only a mean value of different PEEPi values of various lung regions.
Increasing external PEEP only partially alters this mean value due to an effect on PEEPi values lower than external PEEP.
The PEEPi values measured by the EVITA respirator compared with classical end-expiratory occlusion with an external valve were nearly identical.
Unfortunately, PEEPi measurement of the EVITA can only
We report on the case of a 70-year-old caucasian woman with a large linear sebaceous naevus with multifocal intralesional basaliomas and a lipodermoid of the left eye.
This rare finding has been preserved because of the special history of the patient.
The naevus spread on the left side from parietal to retroauricular, nuchal and sternal.
Because of the patient's cardio-pulmonary insufficiency we excised the basaliomas under local anaesthesia.
We also made a partial stripped excision of the left-sided parietal parts of the naevus.
We describe an HLA-B27 positive patient in whom posttraumatic pyogenic sacroilitis led to complete unilateral sacroiliac joint ankylosis in the absence of any signs indicative of HLA-B27 associated spondyloarthropathy.
Ondansetron, a selective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, has recently been shown, in a dose of 8 mg, to be superior to 1.25 mg droperidol in preventing postoperative vomiting.
There are indications that a dose of 4 mg of ondansetron may be just as effective in reducing postoperative nausea and vomiting as a dose of 8 mg [16].
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and the adverse effects of 4 mg ondansetron in the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting compared to droperidol in patients undergoing surgery with inhalation anaesthesia supplemented with alfentanil.
Following institutional approval, 40 ASA physical status I and II women scheduled for minor gynaecological surgery gave informed consent to participate in this randomized, double-blind comparative study.
Five minutes before induction of general anaesthesia, 20 patients received a single intravenous (IV) dose of 4 mg of ondansetron and the remaining 20 received 1.25 mg droperidol IV.
Anaesthesia was induced with 2.1 - 4 mg/kg of thiopental and 0.1 mg of alfentanil IV and maintained with 65% nitrous oxide and 1.5% - 3% enflurane in oxygen.
On pain stimuli another 0.2 - 0.4 mg of alfentanil was given.
Total effective antiemetic response was defined as the absence of nausea and vomiting for 24 h postoperatively.
The incidence of nausea, vomiting and the number of patients showing total antiemetic response as well as the incidence of adverse effects were compared with the chi2 test and P<0.05 was considered significant.
Patients were similar with respect to age, height, body weight and total anaesthetic agents received.
Duration of anaesthesia and the time until awakening was not significantly different among groups.
Postoperatively 7 out of 20 patients given 4 mg of ondansetron and 3 out of 20 patients with droperidol vomited (n.s.).
The incidence of nausea was 11 out of 20 in the ondansetron group, and 4 out of 20 in the droperidol group (P<0.05).
Sixteen patients in the droperidol group and 8 patients in the ondansetron group showed a total effective antiemetic response (P<0.05).
Postoperative sedation and well-being scores did not differ significantly among groups.
Our results show that for the prevention of postoperative nausea and vomiting 4 mg of ondansetron was inferior to 1.25 mg of droperidol.
The drugs were given intravenously prior to general anaesthesia for minor gynaecological surgery with nitrous oxide and enflurane in oxygen supplemented with small boluses of alfentanil.
A 66-year-old woman died of internal bleeding and pulmonary fat embolism following repeated massive blows from a wickerwork carpetbeater and an electric cable.
The initial autopsy diagnosis was natural death.
A second autospy on the exhumed body and an intensive criminal investigation revealed a long history of maltreatment by two sisters with whom the victim lived.
The maltreatment occurred during exorcisms with the purported purpose of ridding the victim of her possession by Satan.
The perpetrators and the victim belonged to the same pseudoreligous sect.
The elder of the two sisters had been previously convicted of a fatal exorcism maltreatment of a 17-year-old girl.
Definition of the problem: The article discusses the ways in which sociological analyses can contribute to the problem of a just allocation of scarce donor organs.
Since 1993, 30 patients with acute distal intraarticular radius fractures have been treated under arthroscopic assistance.
According to the AO classification there were 3 B- and 27 C-fractures, most of them Frykman VIII fractures.
Of 30 fractures 23 showed additional lesions which could only be diagnosed under arthroscopic view.
In particular, 12 partial or complete tears of the intracarpal ligaments were found.
Of 25 fractures 23 which were treated at least 12 months previously could be followed up radiologically and clinically.
X-rays included postero anterior and lateral views to evaluate the radial angles and the radial length and stress tests to check for instability, especially of the scapholunate ligaments.
Clinical examination included range of motion and objective grip strength measured with a Jamar (Cedaron) tester.
Each test was performed on both wrists for comparison.
Subjective data included pain and function for daily activities.
Data were evaluated by the Jakim and the Cooney scoring system and the demerit point system by Gartland and Werley as modified by Sarmiento et al.
About 70% of our patients showed an excellent or good result; about 15% had a poor result.
However, we must mention that we were not able to reduce one C3-fracture under arthroscopic view and had to switch to a semi-open procedure with additional external fixateurs.
Arthroscopically assisted treatment of distal intraarticular fractures is not only useful to detect and manage additional carpal lesions, but seems to give good midterm results as well.
Antitachycardia pacing techniques (ATP) have proved useful for termination of ventricular tachycardia (VT).
However, little is known about the efficacy and safety off ATP during long-term follow-up in a larger study population.
We analyzed the data of 80 ICD patients (pts) with spontaneous monormorphic VT, mean age 59  +/-  12 years, the mean follow-up was 26  +/-  17 months.
50 pts (62.5%) had coronary artery disease, 18 (22.5%) dilative cardiomyopathy (DCM), the remaining 12 pts (15%) had no or other cardiac diseases.
2926 episodes of ventricular tachycardia (cycle length 349  +/-  51 ms, 240-520 ms) occurred in 64/80 pts (80%), overall efficacy of ATP was 89.9%, acceleration occurred in 4.1% of VTs.
Success of ATP did not correlate with positive ATP testing on induced arrhythmias, LVEF, NYHA class or aneurysm.
Neither underlying heart disease nor antiarrhythmic medication had an impact on the ATP success rate.
ATP efficacy was linked significantly to short VT cycle length (VTCL, 240-300 ms, p < 0.01) and long coupling intervals (91-97%), p < 0.01).
Acceleration occurred in 32% of pts and in 4.1% of VT episodes; it was also dependent on short VT cycle length (< 300 ms vs > 300 ms, p < 0.04) and short coupling intervals (< 81% vs >= 81%, p <= 0.01).
Methodological work was performed in the field of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and spectroscopy (MRS) in order to develop suitable tools for non-invasive characterization of hematopoetic bone marrow.
The methods were applied for the assessment of normal values in healthy persons and to examine patients with generalized hematological diseases or to monitor effects of therapies influencing the composition of bone marrow.
Lichen ruber planus is considered a T-cell mediated immunologic reaction with unclear pathogenesis.
Drugs and infections (especially hepatitis B and C) are well-known provocation factors.
After an infection with scabies a 13 year old boy developed a generalized lichen planus including bullous lesions.
For the first time scabies is presented as a trigger for lichen planus.
In childhood, lichen planus is characterized by atypical clinical features and sometimes a severe course.
Introduction: Increasing demands on quality assurance und medical performance documentation require an immedate and evaluable documentation in the outpatients' department.
Presentation of a new computer-based diagnostic system for reporting and medical performance documentation.
Methods: Development and initial application of the system in three big orthopeadical or traumatological hospitals.
Judegements about the feasibility of immediate documentation in outpatients' departments.
Results: Presentation of an outpatients' departments diagnostic system with textblock-oriented anamnesis or anatomy-related diagnosis through pre-structured examination checklists.
Coding of ICD-9/-10 as well as AO-classification and AIS (abbreviated injury scale).
Medical performance documentation through forms including pre-defined billing codes.
Presentation of the documentation flow and its transfer into other contexts.
Discussion: Pure text-based clinical results do not allow sufficient evalutation for quality assurance and medical performance documentation.
However, a computer-based and immediate documentation in outpatients' departments should not mean a significantly increased workload for physicians.
Hydromorphone is a µ receptor agonist opioid.
According to WHO recommendations, hydromorphone is to be classified in step III of pain therapy.
An oral formulation with a prolonged duration of action of 12 hours has been evaluated only recently.
The controlled release capsule is especially suited for the regular twice a day administration in cases of severe and persistent pain.
The oral formulation of hydromorphone increases the number of opioid analgesics available for pain therapy in step III.
Hydromorphone is recommended when morphine fails to produce sufficient pain relief (despite increase of doses) or causes intolerable side effects (despite treatment of symptoms).
In principle, no differences in efficacy of morphine and hydromorphone are to be expected.
However, clinical experience shows that changing one opioid analgesic to another one can improve the treatment of patients so that hydromorphone may replace another opioid analgesic to which a patient fails to respond well or develops side effects.
The dose of hydromorphone equivalent to 2 times 30 mg controlled release morphine is about 2 times 4 mg.
The values for the absorption, bioavailability and maximum plasma concentration after the administration of controlled release hydromorphone every 12 hours -of three times the dose- are equivalent to those of an immediate release tablet given every 4 hours.
In several open label and controlled studies, hydromorphone proved to be of good efficacy in the treatment of acute and persistent pain, especially in patients with severe cancer pain.
With regard to the incidence of side effects, no significant differences between morphine and hydromorphone could be established.
In general, the side effects of hydromorphone are typical for opioid analgesics.
In 63 patients, 82 elevations of the maxillary sinus were performed.
As augmentation, materials autografts from the iliac crest (combined with alveolar ridge augmentations in 16 sinus lifts) were transplanted in 39 cases and osteoinductive, allogeneic bone powder (AAA bone (autolyzed, antigen-extracted, allogeneic bone): n = 8, DFDBA (demineralized freeze-dried bone allograft) and/or GraftonTM (demineralized bone matrix gel): n = 35) were used in 43 cases.
Some 4-6 months after implantation, osteoinductive, allogeneic (demineralized) bone implants showed radio-opaque areas as an equivalent of bone formation.
Histological examinations revealed that osteoinductive implants were completely transformed into patients' own bone tissue.
The average augmentation height after autograft transplantations was 14 ( +/-  3) mm in comparison with 9 ( +/-  3) mm after allograft implantations.
Histologically as well as radiologically no differences of the bone quality could be determined between the two augmentation materials.
Endoscopic controls showed, in both groups, nonirritated mucous membranes.
On an average 2 endosseous implants (Bone LockR or ITIR-screw implants) were inserted into the augmentated maxillary sinus floors in both groups.
No osseointegration was achieved in 4 out of 67 dental implants when bone autografts were used and in 2 out of 74 dental implants of the allogeneic bone group.
Patients with bone autografts suffered from postoperative complaints on an average of 19 ( +/-  9) days (without consideration of 2 patients with postoperative complaints persisting for more than 90 days).
The average postoperative complaints of recipients of allogeneic bone implants continued for 3 ( +/-  5) days.
The 13 patients who underwent an ambulant sinus lift procedure with allogeneic bone powder were already symptom-free several hours after the operation.
Under critical consideration of all investigated parameters, osteoinductive bone implants are preferable to iliac bone autografts for maxillary sinus augmentations in those cases in which no additional alveolar ridge augmentation is required.
We describe a patient with a primary renal plasmacytoma.
In the literature available, only six clinical cases have been reported.
A 64-year-old patient is presented who had the clinical signs of a renal cell carcinoma.
Histological examination after nephrectomy, however, revealed a plasmacytoma.
Based on this case, we discuss how one should proceed in this disease.
Primary renal plasmacytoma can be tentatively diagnosed preoperatively only in the presence of paraproteinemia or Bence-Jones proteinuria, as it cannot be distinguished from other renal tumors by imaging procedures.
Postoperatively, further staging procedures must rule out bone involvement (solitary myeloma or multiple myeloma).
Nephrectomy is required in patients with plasmacytoma only if renal complications occur.
Dissection of the ascending aorta (type A) following later after aortic valve replacement has been described with increasing frequency.
This study analyzes the role of aortic valve replacement for the evolution of late dissection.
Between December 1986 and November 1995, 222 patients with 225 acetabular fractures were treated operatively by three surgeons in the Department of Traumatology and Emergency Surgery of the University Hospitals of the Catholic University of Leuven.
Indications for surgery were unstable fracture, displaced fracture through the acetabular dome and fracture with intra-acetabular fracture fragments.
There were 37.3% A-fractures, 49.7% B-fractures, and 13% C fractures according to the AO Classification.
In 16.4% of fractures there were primary neurological deficits.
Patients were treated operatively after an average of 5.0 days.
The Kocher-Langenbeck approach was used in 56.9% of cases, the ilio-inguinal approach in 27.1% and the extended iliofemoral approach in 4%.
In 7.1% of patients, a primary total hip endoprosthesis was implanted.
There was no intra- oder perioperative mortality.
The average hospital stay was 26.1 days.
In 7.1% of patients, we noted secondary neurological problems.
Deep infections were present in 1.3%.
In 11.1% of patients a second operative procedure was necessary.
We were able to review 175 patients after an average of 2 years.
Signs of arthrosis and periarticular ossification were noted on the x-rays: walking distance, hip mobility and pain intensity were asked about and recorded after the clinical examination.
In 76% of patients an excellent or good result on the Merle-d'Aubigne scale was obtained.
T-fractures and posterior wall fractures were followed by the worst results.
During this 9-year period, changes have been made to the preoperative radiological examination carried out, the choice of operative approach and our policy on prevention of thrombosis prophylaxis and postoperative ossification.
After thorough preoperative diagnosis and with a meticulous operative technique, it is possible to stabilise the vast majority of acetabular fractures through the three classical approaches.
Because the fractures are relatively rare, their diagnosis complex and their surgical treatment difficult, specific training is essential for every acetabular surgeon.
Diagnostic pitfalls exist when benign salivary gland diseases are mistakenly classified as malignant, with consequences for treatment and prognosis.
Examples are necrotizing sialometaplasia, metaplastic Warthin tumour and sclerosing polycystic sialadenopathy.
The proper diagnosis is of eminent importance to distinguish cases of primary tumours that have developed in salivary glands or their lymph nodes from cases of extraglandular tumours with metastases in these glands or their nodes.
In these cases clinical data and additional immunocytochemical methods are necessary to clarify the exact diagnosis, especially when the primary salivary gland tumours have a structure largely identical to the metastases (e.g.
Nasopharyngeal or cervical chordomas can be mistaken for pleomorphic adenoma or mucinous adenocarcinoma.
The initial stage of malignant MALT lymphomas in association with Sjögren's syndrome demands identification of clonal rearrangement for therapeutic implication.
The diagnostic criteria for proper classification are analysed in detail.
A 59-year-old male patient was transnasally operated on because of a pituitary adenoma with hypopituitarism.
A second operation and X-ray therapy followed a half year later due to recurrent tumor.
Both neoplasmas were classified as sparsely granulated prolactin cell adenomas.
Immunohistochemical studies revealed strong immunoreactivity for prolactin and FSH in the tumor cells of both the pituitary adenoma and the recurrent tumor.
Two years later the prolactin plasma levels were extremely elevated.
A tumor in the liver was identified.
Biopsy revealed a solid endocrine tumor containing prolactin by immunohistology.
Due to structural and immunohistological similarities this tumor could be identified as a metastasis of the pituitary tumor.
After 5 months of therapy the patient died from thrombembolism.
Post-mortem studies confirmed the diagnosis of a metastasizing prolactin-secreting pituitary carcinoma.
Only six similar cases have been reported in the literature.
Our case report confirms the experience with 35 definite pituitary carcinomas reparted in the current literature: malignant pituitary tumors develop after pituitary surgery and can be identified not from the pituitary tumor, but only from its metastases.
Paraneoplastic markers in tumor patients may occur at various stages of the disease.
While some disorders almost invariably herald an underlying malignancy (obligative marker), most only occasionally do so (facultative marker).
The association of bullous pemphigoid with malignancy is controversial.
There are only a few reports of bullous pemphigoid associated with a renal cell carcinoma.
We diagnosed a renal cell carcinoma in a 74 year old female patient, admitted to the hospital because of bullous pemphigoid.
Multiple metastases were found in her lymph nodes, liver, lung and skeleton.
The patient died eleven weeks after the first symptoms of bullous pemphigoid appeared.
Acute compartment syndrome of the thigh has been infrequently reported in the literature.
Closed femoral fractures and blunt soft tissue trauma are the main causes of this injury.
The multiple injured patient in this case report developed a compartment syndrome of the thigh after intramedullary nailing of a comminuted fracture of the femur.
Fasciotomy was performed two days after surgery because of extense swelling of the thigh in the ventilated and sedated patient.
Sciatic and femoral nerve palsy was recognized after extubation of the patient nine days after the injury.
During the following weeks the paresis of the femoral nerve recovered but neither motor nor sensory function of the sciatic nerve could be demonstrated.
Therefore an operative revision of the sciatic nerve was performed eighteen weeks after trauma.
No direct nerve injury could be detected but there were adhesions around the nerve as a sign of compression neuropathy caused by the compartment syndrome.
The tibial component of the sciatic nerve showed a complete recovery within the next months but there was a persisting peroneal nerve palsy.
Conclusion: Early clinical symptoms of a compartment syndrome like pain, paresthesia and paresis can not be ascertained in a ventilated and sedated patient.
Tense swelling of the muscles is often the only detectable sign.
Frequent measurements of compartment pressure should be done in these patients.
We suggest early decompressive fasciotomy because the morbidity caused by fasciotomy in a borderline compartment syndrome is far outweighed by the morbidity that accompanies an undiagnosed untreated compartment syndrome with possible nerve palsy.
Aim: The long-term effect of DNase with cystic fibrosis was examined.
Teeth are most important for the identification of unknown cadavers.
The police publish difficult cases of unidentified bodies in dental print media.
Using their records such as x-rays or documented dental work dentists can often recognize an unknown person and thus contribute to the identification.
To evaluate the efficency of this procedure 177 cases published between 1975 and 1995 were examined.
Only 3% of the examined cases could be identified due to a reaction to publishing in the dental print media.
To improve the presentation of identification cases in the dental print media 500 dentists were asked to take part in a survey.
According to these results a new concept of presentation sould be developed to improve the efficency of this odontoforensic method.
New technological possibilities such as digital x-raying or online data transfer could open new ways for forensic identification.
In a fatality after oral intake of a large amount of an insecticide spray consisting of propoxur, tetramethrine and the solvents isopropanol and benzyl alcohol, a coagulation nectrotic fixation of the oesophagus and stomach were the main morphological findings.
The concentrations determined by HPLC and GC/MS in femoral blood, liver, kidney, vitreous humor and liquor were in the comatose lethal range for propoxur (< 0.3-18 µg/g), whereas tetrametrin (up to 0.1 µg/g) was almost completely decomposed.
The propoxur decomposition product o-isopropoxyphenol (2.8-56 µg/g), benzyl alcohol (18-58 µg/g) and its oxydation product benzoic acid (85-140 µg/g), isopropanol (0.45-1.1 mg/g) and acetone (0.01-0.03 mg/g) were also found.
On the other hand, the concentrations in heart blood and lung tissue were up to 30 times higher.
As a reason for these immense concentration differences an agonale aspiration of the highly concentrated liquid stomach content after vomiting immediately before death is discussed.
The extent of the metabolization of propoxur to o-isopropoxyphenol and of benzyl alcohol to benzoic acid, which is assumed to proceed mainly postmortem, was quite different in the materials investigated and was almost complete in the liver.
The intoxication by the acetylcholine esterase inhibitor propoxur in combination with the neurotoxic effect of tetramethrine was determined as the cause of death.
Background: Despite the fact that deep lamellar keratoplasty (DLKP) is less invasive than to penetrating keratoplasty (PKP), this procedure is rarely performed.
We therefore investigated whether or not the DLKP technique we employed can achieve stable improvement of visual acuity.
Palmoplantar keratodermia (PPK) varians and PPK punctata are considered different entities within the group of hereditary palmoplantar keratodermas.
Keratosis punctata of the palmar creases constitutes a localized form of keratodermia palmoplantaris punctata.
We describe a 31-year-old man exhibiting both nummular and papular keratoses on the soles, as well as small punctate keratoses confined to the palmar creases.
In view of the co-occurrence of these two types of PPK, the question arises whether keratosis palmoplantaris of the varians and the punctate type represent distinct entities or represent variable manifestations of the same gene defect.
The author gives a synoptic view on the paths and routes of emigration the jewish and/or political reasons persecuted psychoanalysts had to take in order to escape national socialist Germany.
With reference to current studies on emigration, which for Germany differentiates three distinctive phases of emigration between 1933 and 1938, the immigration policy especially of the United States and Great Britain and its impact on the concrete circumstances and modalities for the emigration of the particular professional group of psychoanalysts is described and discussed.
In this context, the major importance of the solidarity and help the refugees were granted by the international psychoanalytic community and performed in spite of partially major theoretical differences and institutional rivalries is emphasized.
Acute suppurative thyroiditis is very rare in childhood.
We describe the clinical signs and the diagnostic and therapeutic procedures of thyroid abscesses in children, and add 2 own cases of this rare disease.
In the first case, diagnosis of piriform sinus fistula was made finally after repeated drainage for recurrent abscesses of the left thyroid.
Operative excision of the fistula was performed and the child is doing well since then.
In the second case, a left sided thyroid abscess was treated by incision and drainage only.
Seven years later, no recurrent abscess occurred in this child.
In conclusion, especially in left sided and recurrent thyroid abscesses the patients should be examined for a piriform sinus fistula as a route of infection.
If present, complete removal of the fistula is essential for permanent cure.
The importance of spiral-CT is clinically accepted for diagnosing spreading disease and for making a decision about the therapy strategy for head and neck tumors.
Its importance for follow-up after radiotherapy was examined in 26 patients with irradiated laryngeal tumors.
Using spiral-CT multiple signs of alterations (n=98) can be diagnosed, which are not only important for tumour relapse, but also for assessment.
Spiral-CT offers the possibility of achieviny various additional information about the larynx that cannot be obtained with laryngoscopy.
In follow-up examinations after radiation, laryngoscopy and spiral-CT are recommended as an integrated neck examination using the breath-holding technique (separately reconstructed) and also as functional spiral-CT of the vocal cords in "I"-phonation.
Simpson in Scotland was the first to describe the administration of ether for analgesia in painful deliveries.
Only a few days later E.C.J.
von Siebold (*1801 in Würzburg - \dagger1861 in Göttingen) performed the first systematic study on ether in obstetrics.
Following a preceding evaluation of the action of ether on non-pregnant woman and on pregnant women not in active labour, he administered ether for analgesia during the second stage of labour in eight parturients.
The first administration was on February 25th 1847.
While he was satisfied with the good analgesia without sequelae of the new-born, he was discouraged by the termination of uterine contractions observed in all his patients.
He concluded that ether was not a useful substance for analgesia during vaginal delivery, since it disturbed the natural course of labour.
On the other hand, von Siebold was very pleased with the administration of ether for operative obstetric procedures such as forceps deliveries or placental retention.
Background: Mode switching aims to maintain a ventricular rhythm that matches metabolic needs during both sinus rhythm and atrial tachyarrhythmias.
This allows patients with atrial arrhythmias to benefit from AV synchronous pacing modes.Aim and method: Beat-to-beat mode switching in Diamond and Clarity pacemakers is designed to maintain a relatively stable ventricular rhythm, ensuring consistent ventricular filling patterns.
Atrial tachyarrhythmia detection is based on a continuous analysis of the atrial rhythm.
A too rapid increase of the atrial rate with a beat-to-beat acceleration > 15 bpm is considered to be an atrial tachyarrhythmia.
Mode switching occurs on detection of the first premature atrial event: atrial tracking is stopped and the ventricular rate is determined by the rate indicated by the dual sensor (QT interval and activity).
Atrial pacing restores AV synchrony immediately after cessation of the atrial tachyarrhythmia, effectively avoiding retrograde conduction.
Dedicated diagnostic functions allow one to monitor the incidence of atrial tachyarrhythmias and to study atrial and ventricular events just prior to its onset.
Both the mode switching and rate responsive function are fully automatic, rendering follow-up procedures easy and less time-consuming.
Conclusion: Reliable detection of all atrial events is essential to guarantee appropriate mode switching.
Therefore, the pacemaker stores the distribution of the amplitude of all atrial events, both during sinus rhythm and atrial tachyarrhythmias, which facilitates the appropriate programming of the atrial sensitivity.
Introduction: Mediastinal diseases are mostly diagnosed by CT and MRI.
The applicability of ultrasound is limited by the surrounding air- and bone-containing thorax, which permits only restricted echo windows.
Transesophageal endoscopic ultrasonography circumvents this problem and ensures visualization of parts of the mediastinum.
Blood glucose alterations prior to cerebral ischaemia are associated with poor neurologic outcome, possibly due to extensive lactic acidosis or energy failure.
Cerebral effects of hyper- or hypoglycaemia during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) are less well known.
In addition, little information is available concerning cardiac effects of blood glucose alterations.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of pre-cardiac-arrest hypo- or hyperglycaemia compared to normoglycaemia upon haemodynamics, cerebral blood flow (CBF) and metabolism (CMRO2), and regional cardiac blood flow during CPR subsequent to 3 min of cardiac and respiratory arrest and after restoration of spontaneous circulation.
After approval by the State Animal Investigation Committee, 29 mechanically ventilated, anaesthetised pigs were instrumented for haemodynamic monitoring and blood flow determination by the radiolabeled microsphere technique.
The animals were randomly assigned to one of three groups: in group I (n=9) blood glucose was not manipulated; in group II (n=10) blood glucose was increased by slow infusion of 40% glucose to 319 +/- 13 mg/dl; in group III (n=10) blood glucose was lowered by careful titration with insulin to 34 +/- 2 mg/dl.
After 3 min of untreated ventricular fibrillation and respiratory arrest, CPR (chest compressor/ventilator (Thumper) and epinephrine infusion) was commenced and continued for 8 min.
Thereafter, defibrillation was attempted, and if successful, the animals were observed for another 240 min.
Cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP), CBF, CMRO2, coronary perfusion pressure (CorPP), and regional cardiac blood flow were determined at control, after 3 min of CPR, and at 10, 30, and 240 min post-CPR.
In group I, 4/9 animals (44%) could be successfully resuscitated; in group II 4/10 (40%); and in group III 0/10 (0%).
Prior to cardiac arrest, mean arterial pressure, CPP, and CorPP in group III were significantly lower compared to groups I and II.
In group I, CPP during CPR was 26 +/- 6 mmHg; CBF 31 +/- 9 ml/min/100 g CMRO2 3.8 +/- 1.2 ml/min/100 g; CorPP 18 +/- 5 mmHg; and left ventricular (LV) flow 35 +/- 15 ml/min/100 g. In group II: CPP=21 +/- 5; CBF 21 +/- 7; CMRO2 1.8 +/- 0.8; CorPP 16 +/- 6; and LV flow 22 +/- 9; and in group III: CPP 15 +/- 3; CBF 11 +/- 8; CMRO2 1.5 +/- 1.1; CorPP 4 +/- 2; and LV flow 19 +/- 10.
During the 240-min post-resuscitation period, there were no differences in CBF, CMRO2, or LV flow between groups I and II.
Hypoglycaemia prior to cardiac arrest appears to be predictive for a poor cardiac outcome, whereas hyperglycaemia does not impair resuscitability compared to normoglycaemia.
In addition, hyperglycaemia did not affect LV flow, CBF, or CMRO2.
However, it has to be kept in mind that haemodynamics and organ blood flow do not permit conclusions with respect to functional neurologic recovery or histopathologic damage to the brain, which is very likely to be associated with hyperglycaemia.
Abstract  We present an algorithm for the rational diagnosis of glutaric aciduria type I (GA1).
Normal urinary organic acids in patients with non-specific clinical features and normal results of brain imaging render the diagnosis highly unlikely, and no further investigations are required.
In other patients, the diagnostic strategy depends on the individual clinical, neuroradiological and biochemical findings.
GCDH enzyme analysis should be reserved for patients in whom GA1 is very likely.
This article gives a brief review of the history of spinal surgery from the end of the nineteenth century up to our own time.
Malignant lymphomas, originating from peripheral T or NK cells, are rare tumours in Europe and account for less than 10% of all malignant lymphomas.
In this review, the salient features of the more frequently occurring entities derived from T or NK cells will be presented.
Nasal NK/T cell lymphoma is mainly found in the nose and paranasal sinuses and often, but not always, display an angiocentric growth pattern leading to coagulation necrosis.
The tumor cells consistently express CD56, CD2 and the EBER molecules encoded by the Epstein-Barr virus.
Clonal T cell receptor gene rearrangements are often absent indicating, in the majority of cases, a derivation of these tumors from NK cells.
Enteropathy-type intestinal T-cell lymphomas often arise in patients with celiac disease and have a dismal prognosis.
The tumour cells express T cell antigens, CD103 and cytotoxic molecules, but are negative for CD4.
Approximately 20% of the cases display CD56 mostly in combination with CD8.
Recently, an early purely intraepithelial form of this tumour was identified.
Histologically these cases resemble celiac disease, however the intraepithelial lymphocytes often exhibit an abnormal immunophenotype with absent CD8 and T-cell-receptor protein expression, and, they are clonal by molecular analysis.
Clinically, the patients suffer from refractory sprue or ulcerative jejunitis.
The prognosis is bad with the patients often dying from malnutrition or an invasive tumour-forming T-cell lymphoma.
Angioimmunoblastic T-cell lymphoma is defined by characteristic morphological findings (atypical lymphoid cells in part with pale cytoplasm, arborizing high endothelial venules and large FDC-meshworks) as well as clinical features (systemic symptoms, signs of a dysregulated immune response).
Peripheral T-cell lymphomas, that do not fit into a distinct entity, are classified in the REAL and the new WHO classifications as peripheral T-cell lymphomas unspecified.
These display a broad morphological spectrum (including the T-cell lymphomas of different cell sizes, Lennert's lymphoma and T-zone lymphoma of the Kiel-classification) and in general are clinically aggressive.
Causes and courses of the diseases are subjected to a change of an increasing life expectancy on the one hand and technically highly developed medicine on the other hand.
Since a growing number of elderly people is denying intensive medical interventions which serve the purpose of keeping them alive despite severe diseases, the problem of euthanasia imposes direct questions.
A central role is played by the active-passive difference and its moralistic legitimacy.
The difficulties of this difference are discussed below on the applicable level of ethical discussions.
At the same time, knowledge of the danger is being made aware that in a maximal therapeutical orientated medical care system the desire for euthanasia may become identical with the reverse side of this care system.
Isolated severe head trauma (SHT) or SHT in combination with multiple injuries are important factors for the prognosis of morbidity and mortality in patients suffering from the consequences of accidents.
The prognosis mainly depends on the presence of primary mechanic brain injury and the development of secondary brain damage.
Causes for the development of secondary brain damage are the intracranial space demand after traumatic injury and edema formation which may result in iscemia, as well as inflammatory processes.
Both isolated SHT and polytrauma with or without brain damage may result in a systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) due to the synthesis of cytokines and other inflammatory mediators which may cause a single or multiple organ failure (MOF).
Often the organism is able to survive isolated traumatic injuries and functional disturbances, but in combination or cumulation they may be lethal.
The hypermetabolism after SHT is often regarded as an interaction between the central nervous system and the whole organism by the activation of the neuroendocrine axis.
In contrast to the consequences of SHT for the whole organism, multiple injuries after polytrauma may affect brain functions, such as the shock dependent disturbance of the brain perfusion accompanied by brain hypoxia which may lead to an aggravated prognosis.
Moreover, coagulation, metabolism and fracture healing are influenced by the onset of SIRS as well.
Our knowledge about the bidirectional inflammatory interaction between brain and whole organism is still limited.
In this context, the effects of secondary surgical interventions which may additionally stress a traumatized body have to be considered and are the subject for actual clinical discussions and experimental studies.
This article tries to summarize some important aspects on this topic.
Background: Chronic cough and thoracic pain, commonly caused by upper airway infections, are frequently seen symptoms in pediatrics.
These "benign" symptoms are very seldom caused by malignant disorders.
Methods: In two patients (male, age 41/12 and 43/12 years) chronic cough and thoracic pain were due to a malignant pulmonary neoplasm (Pleuropulmonary blastoma).
Results: Pleuropulmonary blastoma is a rare malignant primary pulmonary neoplasm in childhood with a poor prognosis.
An incomplete resection was performed in both cases.
Both patients received postoperative radiotherapy and combination chemotherapy.
One boy died, the other one is alive and well more than 6 years after diagnosis without evidence of disease.
Conclusion: Our findings indicate that even after incomplete resection subsequent multimodal therapy (adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy) can provide a long term remission.
In 12 patients with systemic sclerosis the influence of hypnosis and autogenic training on the acral blood circulation and the coping with the disease was investigated in a pilot study.
In the first step significant increases in the skin temperature of the fingers (mean +/- SD: 3.9 +/- 1.2  °C) could be found after relaxation hypnosis.
In the second step six patients (study group) gained experience with autogenic training.
The other six patients served as control group.
In the study group, the skin temperature of the fingers (short-term effect) was significantly higher than in the control group (1.9 +/- 1.0  °C).
Long-term effects of the autogenic training (mean acral rewarning time, duration and course of the Raynaud attacks, acral lesions of the hands, psychosomatic status of complaints, type of relation to the disease as precondition for coping with the disease) were not found within the relatively short follow-up period of 4 months.
Two patients, however, reported that they could shorten the duration of Raynaud attacks by autogenic training.
In our patients heterogenicity and an increased score of multiple psychosomatic complaints were registered at the outset.
As far as the type of relation to the disease is concerned, the patients could be assessed as almost adapted.
Hypnosis and autogenic training can be recommended as complementary therapy in systemic sclerosis.
Abstract The term acute exacerbation of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) reflects an acute worsening of the stable state with an increase in dyspnea, cough, and count or purulence of sputum.
The management of an acute exacerbation is guided mainly clinical severity which has implications on the decision of outpatient management, hospital management or intensive care treatment.
Cardiopulmonary comorbidity and the number of previous exacerbations are prognostic factors.
The first-line therapy of each exacerbation is the intensification of drug-treatment with 2-agonists and anticholinergics.
Systemic steroids as a short-term course are advocated if hospital-treatment is necessary.
Infections of the respiratory tract are a frequent cause of acute exacerbations.
However, a colonization with potential pathogenic microorganisms is found in many patients in the stable state.
Antibiotic treatment is justified if cardiopulmonary comorbidity and frequent previous exacerbations are present.
The severity of airflow obstruction and the frequency of previous exacerbations are linked to the spectrum of the underlying microorganisms.
This should be borne in mind for the choice of the antimicrobiotic treatment.
Noninvasive ventilation in severe exacerbation is able to improve gas-exchange and to reduce the work of breathing.
As a consequence the number of intubations and the attributable morbidity and mortality are reduced.
If invasive mechanical ventilation is necessary, the potential of dynamic hyperinflation in acute exacerbation has to be considered.
Background: In 1986 Prof. H. Olbing (University of Essen Pediatrics Department), supported by Prof. G. Stickler (Mayo Medical School, Minnesota), introduced a 4-weeks clinical skills lab for all students (annual class 250), based on self-instruction by means of computer-assisted, interactive, audiovisual learning materials, models, bedside teaching and seminars on special topics (partially peer-guided).
Each year 14 chosen senior medical students get a two weeks intensive training in order to function as peer tutors for the bedside teaching.
The peer tutors train the junior students in basic behaviour and clinical examination skills.
Each tutor is active during 4-5 skills lab periods, and in each period he/she coaches two groups of two students each.
During the bedside teaching phase each group examines and presents four patients.
Spinal injuries referring to banal falls are common injuries in elderly persons.
Up to 55 years of age spinal fractures are more frequent in men while its opposite in older persons.
There are two typical lesions: odontoid fracture in the upper cervical spine and compression fracture in thoracolumbar spine.
Odontoid fracture is the most frequent lesion in cervical spine in the elderly.
This is caused by trabecular structure of dens axis and spine's stiffness in old age.
Instable fractures in extension type II are most common.
In many cases the instability of the lesion is hidden and can be first seen in functional examination controlled by x-ray.
Conservative treatment is efficient in stable lesions type III while there is a high risk for pseudarthrosis in treatment of instable lesions in elderly with Halo Fixateur e. g. We think that the best operation for these fractures is the anterior screw fixation.
If this is not sufficient because of low bone mass or early dislocation of the screws a dorsal fusion C1/C2 with transarticular screwing e. g. should be done.
Because of rare symptoms thoracolumbar fractures in osteoporosis are hidden frequently.
In many cases it's not easy to distinguish acute lesions from healed fractures or tumor lesions.
Therefore there are just few compression fractures (A type) that have to be treated operatively.
Instable lesions type B and C must be operated as well in the elderly as in the young.
Because of low bone mass in elderly the dorsal instrumentation should include more than just the two injured segments.
An even more adequate stabilisation is done with an additional vertebral replacement.
Following curative minimal-invasive laser resection of T1-T3 laryngeal carcinomas, patients were subjected to an intensive voice rehabilitation.
Therapy was effected twice a day for approximately 2 months, utilizing the concept of functional voice therapy.
Before and after rehabilitation, acoustic analyses were made by using two different computer-supported measuring systems: (1) the "multidimensional voice program" (Kay Elementrics Corp.) and (2) a novel software program developed in Göttingen that includes a new voice quality parameter based on correlations between frequency bands.
Acoustic analyses showed superiority of the glottal versus supraglottal compensatory phonation.
Findings showed that not all acoustic parameters equally documented voice improvement after rehabilitation.
The standard deviation of fundamental frequency was the only parameter showing a significant post-therapeutic improvement.
A further suitable acoustic method proved to be the voice quality parameter that has been newly introduced by us.
In contrast to analogous parameters of other methods, this approach is independent of the exact periodicity of the glottal excitation function, thus permitting reliable results to be obtained even with aphonic or heavily dysphonic voices.
Aseptic pseudarthrosis may occur after all kinds of traumatology treatment.
Following conservative treatment, incomplete immobilisation or an unattached bone fragment can be causal.
After plate osteosynthesis the biomechanical principles are not efficient or the circulatory damage delays healing.
There are two broad types of pseudarthrosis: vascular and nonvascular.
The extent of vascularisation can be demonstrated by bone scintigraphy as well as X-ray.
The treatment of vascular nonunions is very common.
Mechanical stability is required, therefore a new osteosynthesis is desirable.
Osteoporosis caused by inactivity and dislocation increases the rate of complications.
Much more difficult problems are encountered in treatment of unreactive and avital pseudarthrosis, particularly in cases with a defect of bone substance.
These defects can be treated with a segment transfer and a fibula-to-tibia operation.
Extracorporal lithotripsy has been established as a new method in treatment of active and vascular nonunions.
Former osteosynthesis is not a contraindication.
Stability and immobilisation are necessary.
Treatment in the low-frequency magnetic field shows no effect.
Correct biomechanical and biological osteosynthesis with proper attention paid to location, quality of bone and asepsis can avoid the development of a pseudarthrosis.
Aim of the study: The goal of this study was to assess the prevalence of ophthalmological abnormalities in 10 year old survivors with extremely low birthweight of 500-999 g. In addition the association between retinopathy of prematurity and other ophthalmological disorders was studied.
Background: Although the majority of surgeons regard Hartmann's operation as therapeutic standard in perforations of the colon complicated by peritonitis this procedure has been critically discussed in recent years.
Advocates of one-stage techniques criticized bad postoperative results (high morbidity and mortality) and long-term outcome (low rates of intestinal restoration).
The aim of our study was to investigate whether the late results after Hartmann's operation justify this criticism.
Method: From 1982 to 1997 Hartmann's operations were performed in 103 patients for colonic perforations.
In 63 % of cases inflammatory diseases caused colonic complications.
The average Mannheimer Peritonitis Index (MPI) was 19.
Seventeen patients died postoperatively (mortality: 16.5 %).
In 69 patients (80 %) intestinal restoration could be performed after an average interval of 122 days (complication rate: 6 %, no mortality).
On follow-up, patients were asked to give information on their general state, changes of housing, abdominal complaints, and quality of life.
Results: Data on 93 % of patients could be obtained.
The median follow-up time was 75 months.
Eleven patients had died; the remaining 72 were investigated.
86 % described the quality of their lives as good or very good; only 11 % indicated severe loss of activity.
Quality of life did not differ between patients in whom intestinal continuity had been restored and those in whom it had not been restored.
Anastomotic strictures developed in 7 % of cases, always after stapled anastomosis.
Conclusions: According to our results, long-term outcome after Hartmann's operation is good.
80 % of patients underwent intestinal restoration with low morbidity (6 %) and no mortality.
A great majority of patients indicated the quality of their lives as good or very good: this assessment was not dependent on restoration of intestinal continuity.
Tibial torsion defects are usually not clinically evident and, hence, are often overlooked.
Clinical examination and CT scan have proved to be the best ways of measuring static tibial torsion, whereas dynamic measurements are usually performed in the clinic and the "gait laboratory."
Only few studies have determined there to be a connection between a torsion defect in the lower leg and expected pathological conditions of the knee and ankle joints.
However, patellofemoral instability, Osgood-Schlatter disease, osteochondrosis dissecans are increasingly being found in cases of increased external tibial torsion and arthrosis in reduced torsion.
The aim of this study was to ascertain to what extent homeless, mentally ill subjects in Munich take advantage of available psychosocial services.
To obtain a representative picture of the situation, the first step was to ascertain how many people in Munich are actually homeless.
The next step was to ascertain what proportion of them are in need of psychotherapy.
Using the standardized Diagnostic Interview Schedule (DIS), 146 men and 32 women were interviewed.
The results according to the DSM-III demonstrated high lifelong and 6-month prevalence of psychic disturbances.
Medical and social services were often enjoyed, but mostly over a short period of time in particularly critical situations.
Women were treated more often than men.
Elements such as age and level of education hardly influenced patients' seeking help.
Despite a high prevalence of addictive disease, alcohol and drug clinics were rarely consulted.
The increase in the number of diagnoses was paralleled by an increase in the number of patients seeking help.
Most treatments involved schizophrenia and anxiety.
By means of logistic regression models, predictors of the extent to which these services were used were analysed.
We conclude that new clinical models are needed and that the aversion to the present care system is too great.
Continued treatment occurs only rarely.
Electrocardiographic and clinical characteristics are currently used as diagnostic criteria for the long QT-syndrome.
In borderline electrocardiographic findings associated with unclear syncope, it is often difficult to ensure or exclude long QT-syndrome.
Schwartz and coworkers therefore created a point system as a guide in clinical decision making.
In recent years genetic diagnostics have entered the arena of long-QT assessment.
Aside from new insights into the pathophysiology of the long QT-disorder, it is expected that genetic diagnostics will offer substantial help to ascertain long QT-syndrome in patients with borderline electrocardiographic and clinical findings and improve risk stratification in long-QT family members.
Performing linkage analysis, coupling of autosomal-dominant congenital long QT-syndrome (Romano-Ward Syndrome) to chromosomes 11 (LQT1/11p15.5), 3 (LQT3/3p21), 7 (LQT2/7q35), and 4 (LQT4/4q25-27) was demonstrated.
More recently, the disease genes in long QT-syndrome 1, 2, and 3 could be identified.
Analysis of the base-pair sequence allowed detection of several different mutations in different families illustrating genetic heterogeneity.
Aside from diagnostic aspects, molecular genetics may also guide pharmacological therapy by identifying the specific ion-channel disorder leading to QT-prolongation and sudden death.
During the past 4 years we have demonstrated in eyes with corneal pathology that applanation tonometry (Goldmann, Perkins) generally delivers falsely low measurements in comparison to intraocular needle tonometry.
The aim of this study was to evaluate whether impression tonometry (Schioetz) is more precise than applanation tonometry in determinating the intraocular pressure in eyes with corneal disorders.
The case of a 24-year-old woman with a plunging ranula is reported.
Primarily, the patient noticed extensive swelling of the neck, which had developed 3 months previously.
The polycystic, firmly attached tumor and the sublingual and submandibular glands of the right side of the neck were surgically removed.
Pathological examination showed a retention cyst by means of a plunging ranula.
The etiology, pathogenesis, clinical aspect and diagnostic procedures for the plunging ranula are described.
Various therapeutic possibilities are discussed in regard to their value.
We prefer surgical treatment with a histological examination to verify the diagnosis.
The plunging ranula originates on the sublingual gland; therefore, its simultaneous extirpation is recommended to avoid recurrences.
In extensive cases, the additional removal of the submandibular gland can be advised.
Cranial dural fistulae are rare; when they occur, it is usually difficult to detect them at an early stage.
With a view to the question of possible progress in diagnosis we now report on seven patients with lateral dural fistulae fed by branches of the external carotid artery.
The examination was carried out before selective arteriography using cw-Doppler sonography and colour coded duplex sonography in combination.
Sonographic criteria for detection of hyperperfusion take account of flow velocity as well as pulsatility.
In all cases hyperperfusion of the external carotid artery and the common carotid artery was detected.
In most of these cases pathologic findings were also observed at the occipital artery, and more rarely in the contralateral external carotid artery or the ipsilateral vertebral artery, in addition.
A possible source of error arising from confusion of blood vessels was present with the cw-Doppler sonography, but not for colour coded duplex sonography.
Therefore, cranial dural fistulae characterized by a high shunt volume can be diagnosed correctly by indirect Doppler sonographic criteria using cw-Doppler and duplex sonography.
Direct visualization of the fistula and its nidus requires additional selective arteriography, in the course of which endovascular embolization may be performed.
Background: Echocardiography is a standard imaging technique for the assessment of heart valve disease.
The good spatial and temporal resolution is the basis for different methods which provide information about the severity of such defects.
Dynamic colour visualisation and volumetric measurements of regurgitant jets are a new evaluating tool for the assessment of heart valve insufficiencies.
In Germany, as in all industrial nations, there has been an increase in the number of cases of cancer and in cancer-related mortality.
According to the German Federal Bureau of Statistics, in 1998 nearly 213,000 persons died due to malignant cancer.
Cancer patients generally have physical and psychological dysfunction that may in turn cause a significant reduction in quality of life if treatment is performed insufficiently or not at all.
Pain is the dominant symptom and can have serious effects on the patient and his or her family.
Although various organizations have published treatment plans for adequate pain therapy, in many cases they are not adequately applied by physicians.
This work therefore offers a comprehensive review of pain therapy as an essential component of palliative medicine.
This retrospective study shows the results in 30 patients of revision surgery on their reruptured ACL.
The follow-up time was 30 months on average (range 10 - 54 months).
The follow-up examination included subjective (Lysholm score, Tegner activity level rating score), clinical and radiological criteria and also instrumental laxity testing with the KT-1000 arthrometer.
The overall evaluation was done according to the IKDC score.
The follow up showed subjective and objective results almost equal to those after primary surgery on ACL.
The IKDC score revealed certain abnormal and highly abnormal results, which demonstrated that revision ACL surgery gives poorer results than primary surgery.
Nevertheless, we recommend reconstruction of a torn ACL even in a revision case to restore the knee function and prevent further menisceal and chondral damage and degeneration.
Nowadays, restorative proctocolectomy is considered the "gold standard" in the surgical therapy of ulcerative colitis.
Alternative procedures such as Brooke ileostomy or Kock pouch are limited to special indications.
Preservation of function is the decisive advantage of the ileoanal pouch, but preservation of function is not equal to quality of life.
Quality of life is a multidimensional concept that is difficult to define and measure.
Quality of life can only be assessed by standardized and validated quality-of-life questionnaires.
Preoperatively, patients with ulcerative colitis have a restricted quality of life, depending on the intensity of their disease.
Proctocolectomy is the curative therapy and improves quality of life.
When evaluating quality of life it is not essential if patients are treated by Brooke ileostomy or restorative proctocolectomy.
The advantage of restorative proctocolectomy is the improvement in some aspects such as sexuality and physical acticity.
The "Total Quality-of-Life Index" is not impoved.
Preoperatively, patients should be informed that preservation of function by restorative proctocolectomy is accompanied by an increased postoperative morbidity in comparison to other procedures.
Decreased quality-of-life results when complications occur postoperatively that cannot be controlled over a long period of time.
In some cases excision of the ileoanal pouch may be the most sensible way of solving the problems.
On the other hand, patients without complications and good function after ileoanal pouch procedure may achieve a quality of life comparable to that of healthy controls.
Preoperatively, patients should be aware of this risk-benefit relationship and should share the responsibility of the decision for or against restorative proctocolectomy.
The objective of this investigation was the experimental determination of the contact pressures in the hip joint for characteristic phases of the gait cycle.
The joint forces determined in vivo with telemetric endoprosthesis by Bergmann et al.
(1993) were converted into a pelvic reference system, based on kinematic gait analysis.
In eight cadaveric hip joints (age 18-75 yrs.)
the reaction forces were applied corresponding to four phases of the gait cycle (heel strike, mid-stance, heel off, toe off) and the pressure distribution determined with FUJI pressure sensitive film.
We found maxima of 10 MPa during mid stance.
The areas of highest pressure were located in the ventro-superior aspect of the acetabulum (anterior part of the acetabular roof) and in the dorso-inferior aspect of the lunate surface.
The pressure distribution was relatively constant during the four phases and the maxima did not vary proportional to the applied load.
The normal pressure distribution in the hip appears to be determined by the physiological incongruity of the articular surfaces and the inhomogeneous bony support of the acetabulum.
During operative interventions this normal load transfer should be restored as accurately as possible.
In spite of its serious sequelae, volatile substance abuse (VSA) attracts very little public attention in Germany.
Our case report describes an adult male who inhaled propane for recreational purposes.
Initially, he achieved short-lived euphoria and hallucinations.
He compensated for the developing tolerance by increasing the dosage, finally consuming 5 litres of fluid propane daily.
Getting such quantities was facilitated by his occupational access to propane.
Since he abused the propane in an apartment house, he also exposed third parties to the danger of explosion.
Clinical examination revealed disturbances in orientation, restricted perceptivity and concentration, reduced mnemonic performance, and psychomotor agitation.
All these symptoms diminished during a 6-month follow-up.
The relationship of his organic mental disorder to the abuse of propane was not clear, since he had also abused alcohol.
Objectives The Marburg external patellotibial (Mpt) fixator is designed to temporarily protect a reconstructed distal extensor apparatus of the knee.
It allows an early functional aftercare.
The indications or ultrasound in the evaluation of pulmonary disorders are described.
Clinical applications are several lung diseases in adults and especially in children.
In specific, well-defined applications, the feasibilties of ultrasound are promising.
Sonography provides important additional information to chest X-ray and is even superior to CT under special circumstances.
Pulmonary sonography is a useful link between conventional X-ray and more expensive cross-sectional imaging.
In the evaluation of pulmonary diseases at present the potential of ultrasound is not optimally used.
Traditionally oral surgeons and dentists have evaluated the jaws using intraoral films and panoramic radiographs.
The involvement of radiologists has been limited.
In the past few years dedicated CT-software-programs developed to evaluate dental implant patients have provided a new look at the jaws.
The complex anatomy is described and identified on human skulls and on axial, panoramic, and cross-sectional images.
With this anatomic description Dental-CT-scans are used to demonstrate the anatomy of maxilla and the mandible.
An overview of the technique of Dental-CT is provided, furthermore the radiation dose of different organs is explained.
Suggestions to reduce these doses by simple modifications of the recommended procols are given.
The debate on passive and active euthanasia has met a controversial echo both in the German-speaking media and in professional publications within recent years.
This discussion, however, largely excluded mentally ill  patients.
Also, euthanasia advocacy groups have usually distanced themselves from  euthanasia in psychiatric patients.
We report here two cases from our hospital in which in-patients with affective disorders committed assisted suicide during a hospital pass.
We discuss these events under the assumption that these are cases of questionable active euthanasia in mentally ill patients whose judgement was considerably compromised by their disorder.
Definition of the problem: In Germany, the dissection rate of the deceased is distinctly lower than in many other European countries.
Although critics of autopsies use to put forward ethical objections and religious scruples, neither the Christian church nor piety stand opposite to the practise of autopsies.
Currently undergoing a clinical trial a new miniaturized monoplane ultrasound probe potentially enhances the practicability of perioperative transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) without loss of echocardiographic quality.
Methods: In the present prospective study, the nasally inserted miniaturized TEE probe was tested in 12 ventilated patients and compared with a conventional TEE probe.
Echocardiographic quality was tested by two independent investigators by analyzing the percentage of the endocardium contour detection (<50%, 50-75%, 75-100%) in the left ventricular short- and long-axis views.
Results: In 11 patients, more than 50% of endocardium were visualized continuously with both probes.
Although the nasal TEE probe was inferior to conventional TEE in detecting lateral endocardium, automated endocardium detection compared well with both methods.
Inter- and intraobserver variability in manual measurements of the left ventricular cross-sectional area was below 5% on average and differed non-significantly with regard to the method.
In 2 patients, continuous monitoring was aggravated by repeated loss of contact between the miniaturized TEE probe and mucosa.
Conclusions: In comparison with conventional TEE, the miniaturized TEE probe provides practicability advantages without significant loss of information for cardiovascular monitoring.
By means of modern color-coded duplex sonography (CCDS) even very small vessels can be visualized.
Maximum resolution nowadays is about 0.5 mm diameter of the vessel.
We compared the use of CCDS and angiography in studying of acral perfusion.
Besides morphologic criteria, hemodynamic criteria were recorded.
Arteries in healthy fingers appear as long and straight vessels with a clearly defined border.
The physiological maximal blood flow velocity exceded 20 cm/s.
CCDS revealed tortuosity of finger arteries as typical finding in thrombangiitis obliterans.
Segmental stenosis can either be identified morphologically or quantified by measurement of the flow velocity with poststenotic maximal systolic velocities of less than 20 cm/s or by the acceleration of the blood flow within the stenosis, as proven by angiographic examinations.
CCDS is suitable for evaluation of acral perfusion in patients suffering from secondary Raynaud's syndrome.
Apart from diagnosis of disturbed acral circulation, other possible applications of CCDS are in in the surgical field, for example replantations in hand or finger surgery.
The discussion of the Osheroff vs Chestnut Lodge court case in the "American Journal of Psychiatry" raised the question whether individual psychotherapy or pharmacotherapy is the appropriate treatment for severe depression.
A summary of the crucial points and a review of the clinical and scientific implications of this case is presented.
In addition, the difference between psychiatrists and psychotherapists regarding the assessment of depressive disorders is examined by analysing results of the ICD-10 research criteria study.
In the case of one patient with dysthymia (ICD-10 RC: F34.1) psychotherapists tended more towards a reactive or neurotic etiology than psychiatrists.
By contrast, the percentage of clinicians suspecting an endogenous etiology and thus, diagnosing a psychosis and starting a psychopharmacotherapy was markedly higher among psychiatrists.
In conclusion, the integration of different conceptualizations and treatment modalities is emphasized as an essential task for both psychotherapists and psychiatrists.
For certain patients, an integrated therapy may be more effective.
A 43-year-old patient was admitted for severe claudicatio in his right leg, doppler ultrasound and angiography revealed an occluded right common iliac artery.
Using the cross-over-approach from the contralateral side, it was possible to navigate a guide wire through the occlusion, and after passage with an excimer laser an ipsilateral retrograde puncture with placement of a sheath was performed.
In order to protect the the aortoiliac bifurcation, a primary stent implantation of the occluded side was carried out using the kissing balloon technique.
Afterwards three stents were placed.
Subsequently the patient completely improved; treadmill exercise test and duplex sonography showed good results.
Conclusion: Using the kissing balloon technique, laser-assisted recanalisation of iliac artery occlusions even involving the aortoiliac bifurcation compare favorable to other more invasive treatments.
A surgical procedure can thus be avoided.
The typical MRI features of the most common pancreatic diseases, such as pancreatitis and adenocarcinoma of the pancreas, have been established.
However, even in these common pancreatic disorders, MRI correlation with the underlying pathology is limited for clinical reasons.
We emphasize MR-pathological correlation of inflammatory and neoplastic pancreatic changes, including pancreatitis, adenocarcinoma, acinar cell carcinoma, rare cystic and solid pancreatic neoplasms, and islet cell tumors.
By highlighting the correlation of key pathological features with MR findings, a better understanding of the MR appearance of pancreatic pathology can be provided.
In addition, MRI may prove a powerful tool in detection and characterization of pancreatic tumors.
Background: The implantation of a femoro-popliteal bypass graft represents the gold standard in the management of arteriosclerotic occlusive disease in the femoro-popliteal region.
Application of interventional techniques has permitted the development of a novel, endovascular implantable bypass system.
The device is placed within the lumen of the superficial femoral artery.
The present study investigated the technical properties of the new system in cadavers, with subsequent evaluation of its application in humans.
Methods: The endopass consists of a thin-wall polycarbourethane tube with a total length of 53 cm.
The distal end is connected with a self-expanding stent prothesis 4 cm in length.
Endovascular implantation is performed through a groin incision.
Following antegrade ringstripper-TEA, the endopass is introduced into the femoral artery after placement of a guide wire.
The proximal anastomosis is performed surgically.
Results: The technical requirements and feasibility of the system were tested on 12 cadaver extremities.
Implantation of the device proved technically successful in seven of eight extremities with significant occlusion of the superficial femoral artery.
The most important problems included the complete ringstripper-TEA, the placement of the guide wire following the TEA, and the expansion of the endopass.
Following approval by the ethics commission, the endopass was implanted in five patients between June 1997 and March 1998.
In three patients, the endopass remained patent and has functioned well.
One patient with poor vascular outflow suffered an early noncorrectable occlusion, while in the remaining case, perforation secondary to the ringstripper procedure forced us to abandon the attempt.
Conclusion: Experience from the cadaver study and initial human applications confirm the feasibility of this method.
Further development and methodological improvement, however, are necessary requiring additional, larger studies on patients.
Introduction: There is no data available on the action of etomidate on ion currents in human neuronal cells.
Therefore the effects of etomidate on a human neuronal delayed rectifer potassium current were investigated.
In order to evaluate patients' exposure to radiation in computed tomography, dose quantities such as the computed tomography dose index (CTDI), multiple scan average dose (MSAD) and dose free in air on the axis of rotation are used.
The CTDI and the MSAD, derivable from the CTDI, are a good measure for the absorbed doses in the examined volume, but they do not take the biological sensitivity of the organs into account and do not describe the radiogenic risk that is actually relevant for patients and doctors.
The dose on the axis of rotation is not an accurate measure of the effective dose and the radiogenic risk.
The declaration of a limit for the dose on the axis of rotation should take the different regions into account, in order to guarantee acceptable image quality on one hand and to avoid an unnecessarily high risk on the other side.
As physical dose quantities, the CTDI, MSAD and dose on the axis of rotation are useful to characterize and differentiate between programs and systems concerning radiation exposure.
Prognosis of patients surviving acute myocardial infarction has substantially improved over the last two decades.
However, stratification of patients at risk for death due to arrhythmic events remains a clinical challenge.
Due to the important role of the autonomic nervous system in the genesis of sudden death, autonomic markers such as heart rate variability and baroreflex sensitivity have recently gained attention as risk stratification parameters.
The present study reports the results of noninvasive risk stratification in 411 consecutive postinfarction patients treated due to contemporary therapeutical guidelines with a high proportion of patients discharged with a patent infarct related artery.
The diagnostic arsenal of risk parameters comprised heart rate variability, baroreflex sensitivity, and more traditional markers such as non-sustained ventricular tachycardia, left ventricular ejection fraction, and ventricular late potentials.
Patiens were followed for a mean of 33  +/- 21 months.
Stepwise logistic regression analysis revealed that left ventricular function, both autonomic markers, and the patency of the infarct related artery were independent predictors of the prospectively defined primary study endpoint, i.e., all-cause mortality plus ventricular tachyarrhythmic events.
With respect to the secondary endpoint (ventricular tachyarrhythmic events), left ventricular function, heart rate variability, and infarct vessel patency were independent predictors.
Ventricular late potentials and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia had no predictive value with respect to ventricular tachyarrhythmic events.
These findings from a large prospective long-term study demonstrate the value of markers of cardiac autonomic tone in identifying infarct survivors at risk for malignant ventricular tachyarrhythmias and sudden death.
K+ Channels and Cardiotoxicity of Drugs: Implications for Drug Toxicity Assessment - The time required for repolarization of the ventricles can be measured as the QT interval of the ECG and is determined primarily by activation of the delayed rectifier K+ current (IK), which consists of a rapid component (IKr) and a slow component (IKs).
Drugs that block cardiac IKr prolong the cardiac action potential (AP).
Prolonged repolarization is detected as a longer QT interval on the ECG.
During prolonged APs, increased inward currents induce early afterdepolarizations, which increase the risk of Torsades de pointes (TdP) cardiac arrhythmias.
TdP arrhythmia is characterized by an apparent twisting of the electrical axis around the isoelectric line.
It has a rate of 150 to 250 beats/min and it can occasionally degenerate into ventricular fibrillation that may be fatal.
The incidence of drug-induced TdP arrhythmias is highest among class IA and class III antiarrhythmic agents.
However, under certain clinical conditions, also several non-cardiovascular medicinal products induce QT interval prolongations in the ECG or TdP arrhythmias.
Since all drugs known to cause TdP block IKr, an early evaluation of possible effects on APs of cardiac myocytes expressing IKr channels during the developmental phases of novel drugs seems to be recommended.
If in-vitro electrophysiological studies show the new active substance to induce AP prolongation and/or K+ channel blockade in appropriate models and at relevant concentrations,  either further development of the new active substance may not be justified or the risk factors predisposing to TdP arrhythmias should be taken into account in further clinical studies.
Carcinoma of the penis is a malignant epithelial tumor of ominous prognosis if not adequately treated.
To a large extent the probability of positive lymph nodes is determined by the grade of the primary lesion.
In turn the number of positive nodes greatly influences the survival.
In the past the complications of radical ilioinguinal lymphadenectomy have decreased their timely indication.
If delayed lymphadenectomy is performed, the survival rate is reduced by approximately 50 % as compared to the results of immediate lymphadenectomy.
The modified inguinal lymphadenectomy described by Catalona leads to less complications.
If performed without delay it should lead to improved survival in patients with higher stage and high grade penile cancer.
Recently suggested employment of adjuvant and neoadjuvant chemotherpy may further enhance the survival.
On the basis of existing models for psychodynamic diagnostic evaluation and psychoanalytic interview technique and of the theoretical concepts of the 5 axes of the OPD diagnosis, a new type of the psychodynamic assessment interview is presented.
The examination is structured in 5 phases: the opening scene, exploration of specific examples for relationships, exploration of experience of self and others, of therapy motivation, and finally clarifying the preconditions for treatment and the ability for insight.
The syndrome diagnosis according to ICD 10 is completed in a final phase.
This psychodynamic-diagnostic assessment interview is recommended, apart from the use for OPD diagnosis, for use a clinical instrument.
Cryptococcal meningitis is one of the most frequent forms of meningoencephalitis in AIDS patients.
Before the introduction of triazol antibiotics like difluconazole, the frequency of this meningitis among AIDS patients was 5-10%, yet declined during the last years.
Clinically, nonspecific signs of a meningeal inflammation predominate while focal neurological signs are rare.
Rapid institution of high-dose antimycotic therapy is the keystone to improve prognosis and decrease mortality.
Antimycotics of choice are amphotericin B, fluconazole, and flucytosin.
Diagnosis is established by detection of cryptococcal antigen in cerebrospinal fluid, microscopic demonstration of cryptococci using India-ink, and cryptococcal cultures.
Recent developments aim to improve antimycotic therapies.
During the last years, life-long secondary prevention with difluconazole was established.
Cryptococci which are resistent against fluconazole and amphotericin B are a special challenge, yet fortunately are rare.
Longterm outcome of patients is determined by the progression of the underlying immunsuppression.
Therefore, combination of secondary prophylaxis with modern antiviral substances is important.
Clinical decision analysis in patients with suspected cryptococcal meningitis is presented using methods from evidence-based medicine.
The effect of aprotinin (2000000 IU as a bolus +500000 JU/h until the end of the operation) on transfusion requirements and coagulation parameters in orthotopic liver transplantation (study group: n=9; placebo group: n=9) was investigated in a randomised, double-blind study.
Coagulation parameters were monitored intraoperatively using a mobile laboratory.
In contrast to the published results, no effect on transfusion requirements could be demonstrated.
However, aprotinin showed a positive effect on some coagulation parameters in the reperfusion phase.
The mechanism appeared to be inhibition of the contact activation of the intrinsic system with less thrombin generation in the study group.
Co-existing inflammation and epidermal hyperproliferation characteristic for psoriasis have been shown to be reproducible in several animal models utilizing a variety of different strategies.These models highlight some points of the multicausal pathogenesis of psoriasis.
Based on observations made in the animal models, a hypothesis is proposed for the pathogenesis of psoriasis, the elements of which can be tested in a recently established xenogeneic transplantation model.
Adipose tissue tumors are often characterized by typical or even specific chromosomal alterations.
In some of the cases the molecular background of these microscopically visible alterations was already elucidated.
In myxoid liposarcomas the translocation t(12;16) creates a fusion gene between the CHOP gene and the FUS gene and in lipomas the HMGI-C gene becomes rearrranged by structural aberrations involving chromosomal region 12q14-15.
Based on examples of a lipoma, a well-differentiated liposarcoma, a myxoid liposarcoma, and an aggressive angiomyxoma it is demonstrated in the present paper how cytogenetic investigation can be used as an additional tool for an improved diagnosis of adipose tissue tumors.
Furthermore, the detection of molecular mechanisms underlying the visible cytogenetic alterations will certainly significantly increase our knowledge about the pathogenesis of these diseases.
The primary goal of diagnostic imaging of the larynx is analysis of submucosal structures that are not visible by clinical or endoscopic means.
Therefore, image analysis of the larynx should only be performed under knowledge of the results of clinical diagnosis.
The anatomic relationships of the laryngeal skeleton, the intrinsic structures, and the surrounding soft tissue are presented synoptically.
The pattern ERG (PERG) is used as an indicator of retinal ganglion cell function.
Up to now, reports on the reproducibility of the PERG have been contradictory.
We investigated the reproducibility under the conditions of the forthcoming ISCEV guidelines for the PERG.
We simultaneously recorded the PERG and VEP in 42 eyes of 21 subjects to phase-reversing checkerboard stimuli with DTL electrodes.
Both transient (2 rps) and steady-state (16 rps) stimulation was employed.
The check sizes were 0.4 °, 0.8 ° and 16 °, the mean luminance 45 cd/m2, the contrast 98%, and the field size 32 °x27 °.
Measurements were repeated at the same time of day after 1 week.
In addition, we compared two different electrode positions in 16 eyes: (1) across the cornea along the lower lid; and deep in the conjunctival sac.
With position (1) the amplitudes were found to be higher by 20% than (2).
We calculated the coefficient of variation (CV) of amplitude as a measure of reproducibility.
CV was 7 +/- 1% for the steady-state PERG, 9 +/- 1% for the transient PERG, 12 +/- 2% for the steady-state VEP and 14 +/- 3% for the transient VEP.
For the latency of the PERG, the intersession CV was found to be 1.5%.
Amplitude reproducibility was somewhat higher under steady-state as compared to transient stimulation; we attribute this to the high noise rejection of the Fourier analysis.
Altogether, the amplitude reproducibility of the PERG is somewhat higher than that of the VEP.
As a result of physical violence to exposed regions of skin (beating, grabbing) it was possible to effect a mutual transfer of epithelial cells between probands.
The majority of these cells were corneocytes with a minimal incidence of nucleated stratum granulosum cells.
Punching onto foil-covered sandbags resulted in a comparable transfer of cells.
Punches afflicted to the upper arms resulted in a successful `perpetrator-victim' assignment via DNA typing.
The DNA did not only originate from the few nucleated cells but also from the corneocytes themselves, as positively confirmed by investigations of denucleated cell-suspensions.
The cell concentration achieved in model experiments, however, shows that the forensic value of such a sample is dependent on the presence of nucleated cells.
The results of this paper justify the requirement - (having weighed up the appropriate case-specific modalities) - that sampling by taking swabs of the skin regions in question must be carried out as soon as possible.
Ultrasound contrast media increase backscatter from blood thus improving the signal-to-noise-ratio.
Potential clinical applications of intravenous ultrasound contrast are reviewed.
Contrast enhancement of continous wave Doppler is indicated when the native recordings are noisy and no complete envelope of the Doppler spectrum is obtained.
In aortic stenosis several investigations showed good agreement between the gradient calculated from Doppler measurements and the results of cardiac catheterization.
In mitral insufficiency maximum area of the regurgitant jet is a widely used parameter for estimation of the severity of the regurgitation.
However, assessment of the maximum jet area may be not possible because poor acoustic windows.
Contrast enhancement provides complete display of the regurgitant jet in most of the patients.
The diagnostic confidence of the Doppler investigation is further improved by the recording of the pulmonary venous flow, which can be recorded in most of the patients following injection on contrast.
Therefore contrast enhanced transthoracic Doppler is an alternative to transesophageal Doppler investigation in patients with poor transthoracic windows.
Since 1993 a report card system for fractures of the neck of the femur has been established in the Department of External Quality Assurance of the Chamber of Physicians of Westphalia-Lippe.
Several indicators of good quality have changed significantly since then: conservative treatment decreased from 6.8 % in 1993 to 4.2 % in 1997, lethality decreased from 6.9 % to 5.4 %, average length of stay decreased from 30.9 days to 24.9 days, average length of stay before operation decreased from 2.6 to 2.1 days, the frequency of operations on weekends increased, complications in wound healing increased from 4.9 to 6.0 %, and cardiopulmonary complications decreased from 11.2 % to 7.8 %.
Between 1993 and 1997, 54.3 % were dismissed to go home; the percentage of patients sent to rehabilitation facilities after acute care rose from 8.3 % in 1993 to 20.1 % in 1997.
The most frequent and still increasing procedure was implantation of hemiprosthesis/bipolar prosthesis (from 38.8 % in 1993 to 41.0 % in 1997) followed by total hip replacement (decreasing from 37.4 % in 1993 to 34.2 % in 1997).
Operative treatment was performed in more than 90 % of all fractures in all counties of Westphalia-Lippe.
However, there was a wide and significant geographical variation in the choice between osteosynthesis and hip replacement: the percentage of hip replacements differed between 57 % and 82 % among different counties.
Average length of stay before the operative procedure for patients undergoing reduction and rigid internal fixation of the fracture is still too long (1.6 days in 1997).
The etiology of os odontoideum is still controversial.
In most patients, it is found by accident because of neurological symptoms and/or painful range of motion of the cervical spine.
Upon recognition of the os odontoideum, it is unknown whether or not immediate surgery is beneficial.
This is in contrast to an "unstable" os odontoideum, which could result in atlantoaxial instability or compression of the myelon.
In this study, we present the results of our treatment of four patients with an unstable os odontoideum.
In all four cases, a C1-2 fusion was performed (3 x Magerl/Seemann, 1 Gallie-Brooks).
Postoperatively, we found a complete regression of neurological symptoms in three patients and one was significantly improved.
The range of motion of the cervical spine was free of pain in all patients.
As a result, we strongly support immediate surgical treatment of an unstable os odontoideum in order to prevent severe and life-threatening neurological complications.
Several studies from anglo-american countries indicate that in non-psychiatric hospital departments mentally ill patients have a longer length of hospital stay than mentally well, while in Austria and Germany, until now, no studies concerning this question exist.
Therefore, we investigated the influence of psychiatric comorbidity on the length of stay in 608 patients of medical, surgical and gynecological departments in Vienna and Tyrol.
Based on the Clinical Interview Schedule, 28.1% of the patients in this sample suffered from psychiatric disorders.
The presence of psychiatric disorders, as well as type of hospital department (medical department), higher age, more previous non-psychiatric treatment periods, and more somatic diagnoses predicted a longer duration of inpatient treatment.
To avoid the influence of cofounding variables, psychiatric cases were matched with psychiatric non-cases.
The mentally ill group was treated for a markedly longer period as inpatients than the mentally well.
Patients with a diagnosis of dementia or of substance abuse showed a significantly increased length of stay, while we could not confirm this for other psychiatric diagnoses.
The development of new cardiopulmonary bypass technologies, special surgical instruments, as well as intrathoracic video systems facilitates mitral surgery via a small right thoracotomy.
Functional recovery after bilateral comminuted fractures of the humeral head with posterior dislocation is poor.
When reposition and internal fixation fail, the remaining alternatives are (hemi)arthroplasty and/or arthrodesis.
In a 50-year-old patient, we treated the dominant shoulder by arthrodesis; a Neer prosthesis was inserted at the other side.
Using this strategy, the advantages of both techniques were combined with an acceptable functional recovery, which ist especially important for young and active patients.
Commonly used regiments for gut decontamination after oral ingestion of toxic substances are induced emesis, gastric lavage and activated charcoal.
It was not until recently that the effectiveness of these procedures was studied systematically.
The results of these studies are presented and the side effects and complications of the different procedures are discussed.
Together with the German poison control centers, guidelines for gut decontamination in pediatric patients were developed, based on the official recommendations of the European Association of Poisons Centres and Clinical Toxicologists (EAPCCT) and the American Academy of Clinical Toxicology (AACT).
The methodology used to assess postoperative continence has a significant effect on the outcome of incontinence surgery.
Retrospective chart review studies consistently report higher success rates than patient questionnaire-based outcome analyses.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the true long-term results of the Stamey bladder neck suspension procedure using an anonymous patient questionnaire.
Of 172 consecutive patients, 138 (80.2 %) returned a questionnaire on long-term continence, complications and subjective satisfaction with the operative result.
With a mean follow-up of 66 months, 65 of 130 evaluable patients (50.0 %) remained completely continent while 15 (11.5 %) never became continent and 50 (38.5 %) had recurrent incontinence 6-90 months postoperatively.
Almost two-thirds of the patients felt either cured or substantially improved more than 5 years after surgery.
Stamey bladder neck suspension leads to a persistently improved quality of life despite a considerable failure rate.
Our study demonstrates the advantages of patient questionnaires for outcome analyses and emphasizes the need for standardisation and validation to allow comparisons between the results of different incontinence procedure in the future.
Social work for the elderly in a demographical ageing society is not justified per se, but has to prove its utility under the altering social conditions of the changing age-structure.
In the field of practice, this has led to an increasing need for professional orientation and to searching for profiles of performance with greater attraction.
Pseudoaneurysms of the extracranial internal carotid artery (ICA) can be caused by external injury or may be due to spontaneous dissection.
Pseudoaneurysms bear an increased risk of arterio-arterial embolism.
Treatment of pseudoaneurysms is influenced by the location and the type of injury, associated injurys, collaterals to the ipsilateral hemisphere, neurological signs and symptoms, growth of the lesion and patient age.
Potential treatment regimen include conservative and medical approaches with anticoagulation and antiplatelet therapy, extra-intracranial bypass, resection of the pseudoaneurysm with vessel reconstruction, ligation or endovascular balloon occlusion of the ICA.
Pseudoaneurysms of the ICA adjacent to the scull base require a major surgical procedure.
If there are contraindications for vessel occlusion conservative or medical treatment used to be the only therapeutic alternatives.
We report the treatment of two patients with extracranial ICA pseudoaneurysms after blunt injury with stent placement (in one case combined with coil embolization) as a further treatment option.
Introduction: The combination of direct magnification mammography and computed radiography provides an improvement in spatial resolution of storage phosphor-based digital systems.
A clinical study comparing conventional and digital direct magnification mammograms was performed.
Methods: 100 survey mammograms in 1.5- or 1.7-fold magnification and 50 4-fold spot magnification views were obtained with a prototype direct magnification mammography system and a storage phosphor-based digital system.
An intraindividual comparison of these with previous conventional radiograms of the same patients was carried out.
Results: The diagnostic value of digital survey mammograms using the direct magnification technique is comparable to that of conventional radiograms of the breast, especially with regard to the identification of microcalcifications and lesions and the clinical consequences.
Spot magnification views performed with this combination of techniques allowed improvement in the evaluation of microcalcifications.
In 15 % of cases, diagnostic procedures were adjusted accordingly.
Conclusion: The combination of the direct magnification technique with digital storage phosphor radiography systems allows the performance of digital mammography by improving the overall spatial resolution.
The diagnostic value of digital direct magnification survey mammograms was comparable to that of conventional mammograms.
Digital 4-fold spot magnification views improved visualisation of the morphologic aspects of microcalcifications.
Warthin's tumour of the larynx is an unusual finding.
In present literature only four cases have been reported.
Only one case of a woman suffering from Warthin's tumour of the protid gland and the ipsilateral site of the larynx has been published.
A case of a 74-year-old woman with an Warthin's tumour of the right parotid gland and the left false cord is presented.
The theories about the development of Warthin's tumours are discussed.
In rheumatic diseases, radiation synovectomy is a reliable method.
Meanwhile, radiation synovectomy is an outpatient therapy.
In addition, combination with arthroscopic synovectomy is an increasing therapeutic modality.
In comparison to the hitherto inpatient modality, a greater lymphatic emigration of the radionuclide and, therefore, a higher radiation exposure is possible.
In 35 patients we found radionuclide emigration in 17 cases by whole body scintigraphy, resulting in a 50%-percentile with 68.27%-confidence interval of 1.8 (0.45-4.78)% of the injected yttrium-90-activity.
Comparison of 3 groups with the above mentioned therapy modalitites resulted in no statistical difference (p>0.05).
Because of the found radionuclide emigration, a radiation dose of 0.1 (0.05-0,18) mSv in women and 0.2 (0.1-0.38) mSv in men was calculated.
For lymph nodes, liver, spleen and whole body radiation doses of 619 (154-1644) mSv, 62 (15-165) mSv, 62 (15-165) mSv and 37 (9-99) mSv were calculated.
Gonadal radiation dose can be neglected and the morbidity rate for tumors bacause of the whole body radiation dose is low with a value of 0.4 per thousand.
Therefore, radiation synovectomy can be used unlimited by patients age and independent of the therapeutic modality.
The goal of surgery using a thoracoscopic approach for the anterior reconstruction of fractures of the thoracic and lumbar spine is the reduction of postoperative pain and morbidity.
Fusion of the injured segment was performed by partial corporectomy and the vertebral body reconstructed using a tricortical autogenous bone graft.
A plate and screw assembly was inserted to stabilize the surgical correction.
This technique was used between May 1996 on May 1998 in 100 patients with 103 fractures of the thoracic and lumbar spine.
Fractures from T4 to L3 were stabilized; most fractures occurred  at the thoracolumbar junction.
A monosegmental short fusion was given preference in 51 patients.
A dorsoventral approach was necessary in 68 patients on account  of the fracture type.
Comparing a group of 30 patients who had undergone an open procedure and a similar group treated under thoracoscopic assistance, we found a marked reduction of the postoperative need for analgesics and the duration of postoperative ventilation.
Pneumatic external counterpulsation operates by applying ECG-triggered diastolic pressure via cuffs to the vascular bed of the lower limbs.
Comparable with intra-aortic balloon pumping, PECP produces a diastolic augmentation combined with increase of mean arterial pressure and coronary perfusion.
American, Asian, and our own data demonstrated a reduction of angina pectoris through repeated use of PECP one or two hours daily for four to seven weeks.
Exercise testing and thallium scanning confirmed the clinical improvement.
PECP is a virtually riskfree treatment option in patients suffering from angina despite medical and interventionell treatment.
Opening of collaterals and collateral growth induced by external counterpulsation are discussed as the cause of clinical benefit.
Transrectal fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) of the prostate under digital control is a cheap and rapid method for diagnostic evaluation of palpable and non-palpable nodules, yielding high sensitivity (ca.
95%) and a low complication rate (<1%).
Its specificity amounts to >97%.
The scarcity of urologists trained in the FNAB method and of pathologists experienced in cytology of the prostate limit the clinical application so far.
Besides various forms of prostatitis, five different types of cancer can cytologically be differentiated.
While PIN I cannot be cytologically identified, PIN II/III lesions may lead to false-positive diagnoses.
Cytologic grading of adenocarcinomas of the prostate is of statistically proven prognostic validity and strictly correlated with its histologic counterpart.
Preoperative, radiologically controlled FNAB of pelvic and paraortal lymph nodes has sensitivity of ca.
86% and specificity of 100%.
It thus helps to avoid unnecessary prostatectomies if nodal tumor spread has preoperatively been proven.
Diagnostic DNA cytometry is able to identify those prostatic cancer patients who do not reveal significantly increased risk of tumor progression or decreased survival probability, even without therapy (constantly and representatively diploid and tetraploid patterns).
Patients with DNA tetraplid histograms may show detoriation of prognosis under hormonal therapy.
DNA-aneuploid prostatic cancers should not be subjected to a "wait and see" strategy; they do not respond to hormonal therapy.
Early defibrillation is the standard of care for patients with ventricular fibrillation (VF) and pulseless ventricular tachycardia (VT).
Technical developments aim at further miniaturization and simplification of defibrillators as well as adaptation of energy requirements to the patient's needs.
Implantable Cardioverter-Defibrillators (ICD) and automated external defibrillators (AED) are based upon the same technology.
Both devices analyze the ECG signal internally, followed by a "shock" or "no shock" decision.
Use of automated devices is the prerequisite for defibrillation by non-physicians.
Chest impedance measurements and use of alternative shock waveforms, such as biphasic, aim at adaptation of energy or current to the patient's individual needs and avoid application of unnecessarily high amounts of energy to the myocardium.
Calculation of median frequency is a non-invasive method for analyzing the heart's metabolic and electrical state.
It helps to determine the optimal moment for defibrillation during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).
Developments concerning the structure of in-hospital emergency systems or pre-hospital emergency medical services (EMS) aim at further reductions in time from collapse of a patient until first defibrillation.
Such developments include early defibrillation programs for emergency medical technicians (EMT), nurses, and fire or police department first responders as well as wide distribution of easy-to-operate defibrillators in public areas, as discussed during the American Heart Association's Public Access Defibrillation conferences.
All programs of that kind have to be organized and supervised by a physician who is responsible for training and supervision of the personnel involved.
Spontaneous breathing with Biphasic Positive Airway Pressure (BIPAP) or Airway Pressure Release Ventilation (APRV) caused a reduction in intrapulmonary shunting and dead space ventilation and improvement in arterial oxygenation in patients with acute respiratory distress syndrome.
During spontaneous breathing with APRV/BIPAP venous return, cardiac output and oxygen delivery increased while oxygen consumption remained unchanged.
In patients early spontaneous breathing with APRV/BIPAP was associated with a better arterial oxygenation than in patients receiving controlled mechanical ventilation for 3 days and were then weaned with APRV/BIPAP.
Length of mechanical ventilation, intubation and ICU stay was shorter in patients breathing spontaneously early with APRV/BIPAP.
Therefore, early spontaneous breathing with APRV/BIPAP may be of advantage.
Rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is a rare but clinically distinct disorder which is easily overlooked.
It commonly occurs in older men and, because of its similarity to epileptic seizures, is often misdiagnosed.
The etiology of RBD is still unknown.
However, there is an interesting association with Parkinson's disease which presents some pathophysiological hypotheses.
Treatment is usually successful with clonazepam.
Various therapeutic options have been proposed in the treatment of femoral head necrosis ranging from conservative management to total hip arthroplasty.
Since microsurgical techniques are routinely used in orthopaedic surgery, the importance of revascularization has increased in recent years.
Vascularized bone grafting as well as various osteotomies have been considered for the stages II and III according to Ficat and II, III and IV of the criteria of the ARCO system respectively, which also bases on MRI-findings.
We investigated the results of 80 patients with avascular necrosis of the femoral head treated with a vascular pedicled iliac bone graft, perfused by the A. circumflexa ilium profunda, between 1988 and 1996.
Mean follow-up was 5,6 years.
The evaluation was based on the harris hip score, clinical and radiological examination as well as a subjective assessment using a VAS (visual analog scale).
The clinical results according to the harris hip score were good or excellent in 86,1 %.
These results correlate with the subjective assessment of pain and of the hip joint function with an average of 7,9 points using the VAS (max.
Unchanged radiological appearance over the follow-up period was observed in 47,5 % using the ARCO criterias.
Reviewing the studies using vascularized grafts, about 50 % of the patients with a stage II and III according to Ficat and II, III and IV of the ARCO respectively show an unchanged stage of the disease 5-6 years after the procedure.
Therefore, transplantation of a vascular pedicled iliac bone graft possibly offers the chance to intervene causally in the course of the disease with only little alteration of the biomechanics of the hip joint.
This paper describes preprosthetic surgery from its historical beginnings to its present state-of-the-art status.
Future perspectives of preprosthetic surgery are also outlined, excluding implants.
In an enquiry of 250 German-speaking maxillofacial departments, 160 responded.
Results showed that a surprising 30-50% of the institutions are still following guidelines for procedures which have been proven by scientific follow-up studies to be almost 100% unsuccessful.
This paper summarizes the results of an attempt to reconstruct the fates of Jewish pediatricians from Germany, Vienna and the German Pediatric Hospitals in Prague between 1933 and 1945.
The relevant archives in Europe, USA, Great Britain and Israel provided facts and relevant dates for 697 Jewish pediatricians who were humiliated and murdered or who emigrated.
Compared with the total number of 1361 pediatric specialists in the three areas, more than 50% of them were Jews as defined by the Nazi racial laws.
So far, 577 cases have been cleared up: 446 of them emigrated to 31 countries; 63 became victims of the Holocaust; other individual destinies included going underground or committing suicide.
The fate of about 120 persons is still unknown.
This paper discusses the probable reasons for the high percentage of Jews in pediatrics, the anti-semitic attitude of the German Society for Pediatrics and the continual humiliation and persecution of Jewish pediatricians in the Nazi period.
We performed a prospective multi-center study in order to determine the causes of  30-day perioperative mortality.
The implantation of a mesh is an essential step in laparoscopic inguinal hernia surgery.
We present the case of a 22-year-old man who developed an unspecific and refractory syndrome of inguinal pain after a TAPP procedure for a primary inguinal hernia.
Repeated reoperation for removement of clips and nerve transection were unsuccessful.
By a transinguinal approach, 18 months after the first operation we removed a preperitoneal Prolene mesh which had shrunk and folded to 30 % of its original size.
The problem of biocompatibility of meshes currently used in inguinal hernia surgery is discussed.
Therapy of advanced renal cell carcinoma remains difficult.
New therapeutic schemes besides cytokine treatment should be evaluated.
The following study analyzes the in vitro toxicity of treosulfan on spheroids of 8 primary cultures of renal cell carcinoma cells.
These data were compared to the toxicity of vinblastine.
All investigations were performed in regard to the P-glycoprotein (Pgp) expression of the cells, which is one of the main causes of multidrug resistance.
Four Pgp positive and four Pgp negative spheroids were incubated with the drugs in increasing doses.
Toxicity was measured using the MTT toxicity assay as well as trypan blue exclusion.
Significantly higher toxicity of treosulfan compared to vinblastine could be demonstrated.
In addition, the effects of treosulfan were not related to Pgp expression.
These results are encouraging and a phase II study analyzing the efficacy of treosulfan in patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma has been initiated in our institution.
Postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy renders beneficial effects on cardiovascular risk factors such as blood lipids.
Additionally, direct protective mechanisms of estrogens in the blood vessels and myocardium are under study.
Recent findings suggest an improvement in endothelium-dependent vasodilatation and coronary microcirculation.
Furthermore, it has also been suggested that this treatment has cardioprotective effects on the left ventricular geometry, i.e., nomial left ventricular mass and wall thickness.
Whether the beneficial effects of estrogens are counterregulated by a combined use with progestins is not yet known and requires further investigation.
Malaria is one of the most common infectious diseases worldwide.
Characteristic signs of malaria are special macroscopic and microscopic organ changes, which may also be seen in postmortem examinations.
Modern diagnostic tools allow a fast and reliable diagnosis.
The symptoms of malaria are rather unspecific, so the correct diagnosis may be difficult, especially if the doctor is not informed about the patient having been abroad.
The cases presented also point out possible legal consequences of a missed diagnosis.
Prognostically relevant factors based on the histological assessment of the resected pancreas are known.
However, additional parameters, such as biological staging of the intrinsic malignant potentiality of the tumor, would be useful.
There has been no uniform finding of a relationship between CD44 variant expression and tumor progression.
Method: We assessed the expression pattern and prognostic impact of CD44 standard and CD44 isoforms v4, v5, v6, v7 and v10 in 40 ductal pancreatic carcinomas by immunochemistry on paraffin-embedded tumor material in patients after tumor resection.
At the time of the investigation neither histomorphological parameters nor the survival time were known.
Results: There was no correlation between the histomorphological parameter and the expression of CD44 splice variants.
CD44 splice variants v4-v10 were almost only expressed in tumor tissue.
In ductal pancreatic carcinoma, patients with an overexpression of CD44 splice variants had a worse prognosis.
However, because of the small number of cases this was statistically not significant.
Conclusion: CD44 splice variants may have an influence on prognosis in ductal pancreatic carcinoma.
However, further investigation on a larger number of patients is necessary to confirm these results.
Regarding the etiology of thoracic outlet syndrome (TOS), congenital bone and/or fibromuscular anomalies, positional characteristics and trauma play a role.
Signs and symptoms are extremely variable, depending on whether the compression of the plexus, of the artery or of the vein is predominant.
In the clinical examination the AEST test is of utmost importance.
The visualization of the subclavian artery and vein by DAS in different positions is mandatory.
Less than 5% of the patients show a subclavian artery aneurysm, but 76% have obstructions of digital arteries.
Every patient, must undergo a neurological examination including the measuring of the proximal ulnar and median nerve conduction times.
Anatomical lesions of the subclavian artery, reduction of the proximal nerve conduction times and high-degree venous compression as well as disabling pain during the night with abuse of analgesics are absolute indications for the decompression of the neurovascular bundle.
This is achieved by the transaxillary exarticulation of the first rib together with a cervical rib and fibromuscular bands if present.
The results of the primary operation are favourable: completely painfree 85%, markedly improved 12%, unchanged or worse 3%.
The results of operations for persisting and recurrent TOS are disappointing: completely painfree 48%, markedly improved 31%, but 21% unchanged or worse.
Regional perfusion of the lung is not distributed homogeneously within the organ.
This phenomenon has been explained by the classical concept of West et al.
based on the isolated canine lung.
The concept stresses the importance of different gravitational forces along the vertical axis of the lung resulting in three zones in which no pulmonary perfusion (zone 1), waterfall-like perfusion (zone 2), and continuous blood flow (zone 3) prevail.
In this article, we review recent publications in which observations have been made which cannot be explained by the West model.
A new concept of distribution of regional pulmonary perfusion is presented which centers on vascular factors which are better suited to account for observed blood flow heterogeneities.
The pulmonary vasculature is composed of repetitions of one structural unit: the vessel bifurcation.
Apart from its size, each single bifurcation is similar to all others.
The pulmonary vessel tree can, therefore, be considered to be self-similar.
Self-similarity has been identified as a design principle of living nature.
Self-similar objects can produce heterogeneity which is also self-similar when viewed at different scales of magnification.
For measurement of the structure of such objects and their function, i.e., in this case the heterogeneity of pulmonary perfusion, fractal geometry is best suited.
Distribution of blood flow within the lung can be described by means of fractal analysis, and all phenomena of perfusion distribution can easily be explained when applying this concept.
Furthermore, since the basis of fractal analysis is pulmonary vascular anatomy, it lends itself for the study of blood flow distribution.
A major advantage is the independence of fractal parameters from resolution of perfusion measurements.
Thus, fractal analysis can be used to compare results that have been obtained using different resolutions and different species.
Fractal methods have previously been used in medicine for other purposes.
Nonlinear analyses of heart beat variability can predict the onset of malign cardiac dysrhythmias hours before actual appearance in the ECG.
Very similar methods applied to electrical brain activity have been shown to allow prediction of epileptical seizures approximately 15 min prior to appearance of clinical symptoms.
In part I of the paper the biomechanical and technical background of the EPTT using the MPT fixator and the indications for this procedure have been described.
In part II we report about the clinical application of the EPTT in 67 patients with a wide spectrum of repairs and reconstructions of the extensor mechanism.
48 patients had fresh injuries, 18 of them with severe concomitant knee lesions and 19 patients had neglected rsp.
There were 4 deep infections, two of them related to the MPT fixator.
In the patients with uneventful healing the fixator remained in place for 7.3 weeks in average.
The clinical, isokinetic and radiological results were reviewed in 17 patients with an average follow-up time of 37.3 months.
There were 5 patients with partial patellectomy and tendon reattachment because of lower patella pole comminution and 12 patients with tendon reattachment ruptured at the inferior patella pole or suture repair in midsubstance rupture.
The clinical results according to the IKDC score were rated in 3 patients as normal, in 10 patients as nearly normal and in 4 patients as abnormal.
This rating was highly dependend on the subjective judgement by the patients who considered their operated knees not as normal as the contralateral knees.
From our clinical experiences and results we can derive that the EPTT enables the surgical management of extensor mechanism disruptions with a minimum of internal fixation material and provides a safe protection of the repairs and reconstructions during the healing period.
The EPTT allows immediate unrestricted functional rehabilitation and early walking without crutches.
Thus the EPTT represents an effective alternative to the patello-tibial cerclage with a wire or synthetic ligaments.
Ondansetron is more effective than a placebo in treating postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), but it has not been proved to be superior to established antiemetics for prophylaxis or therapy.
We compared ondansetron vs droperidol for the treatment of PONV.
Our prospective, randomized double-blind study was performed between 15 October 1992 and July 1993; it included 271 gynaecological ASA I - III inpatients who had been operated on under general anaesthesia with intubation.
Patients were excluded if: there was no informed consent; it was an ambulatory or emergency operation; the patient was pregnant or breast feeding; allergies were being treated with antihistamines; drug addiction was present or convulsions or Parkinson's disease; any pre- or intraoperative antiemetic medication had been administered.
All patients wishing an antiemetic and/or suffering from at least one emetic episode during the first 24 h postoperatively received either 8 mg ondansetron or 1.25 mg droperidol from identical 4 ml ampoules intravenously.
The verbal nausea score (1=none, 2=mild, 3=moderate, 4=severe) was recorded every 30 min for 4 h, then before and 2 h after each antiemetic dose.
All emetic episodes and the interval between administration and effect were also noted.
Patients were interviewed 36 - 48 h postoperatively on subjective effects, side-effects and individual acceptance.
After oral premedication with diazepam, anaesthesia was induced with thiopental, in a few cases with etomidate or propofol.
Relaxation was achieved with pancuronium or atracurium and, when indicated, with succinylcholine.
Muscular relaxation was antagonized with neostigmin and glycopyrrolate.
Gastric content was aspirated once after intubation.
Anaesthesia was maintained with nitrous oxide/oxygen, enflurane, halothane or isoflurane and fentanyl up to 0.3 mg. Statistical evaluation was performed by the unpaired Student's t-test and the Mann-Whitney U test.
Categoric variables were examined by the 2 test.
Significance was defined as P<0.05.
Of 271 patients, 100 (37%) experienced PONV.
The groups were statistically comparable with respect to demographic data, type and duration of operation, emesis record, perioperative uterotonic medication.
Twenty patients in the ondansetron group and 27 in the droperidol group received the first antiemetic within 2 h, the other patients up to 17 h after extubation.
Nausea scores and emetic episodes were identical before antiemetic medication.
The reduction of these parameters after medication was similar.
Complete response over 6 h was 60% in the ondansetron and 68% in the droperidol group.
In both groups the first medication failed in 4 cases during the initial 2 h. Twenty of the ondansetron and 16 of the droperidol patients needed a second dose; among these 2 and 4, respectively, a third ampoule.
No rescue medication was necessary over 24 h and a mean of 1.4 ampoules was administered in both groups.
Onset and quality of emetic action were identical in both groups.
It was not possible to evaluate 25 interviews due to linguistic or amnestic problems.
Multiple side-effects were noted frequently.
Injection pain was reported significantly more often in the droperidol, pruritus in the ondansetron group.
Ninety-three percent of the ondansetron and 85% of the droperidol patients opted for the same drug for future PONV treatment.
Ondansetron (8 mg) and droperidol (1.25 mg) proved to be equally effective when used as a postoperative antiemetic.
Both drugs showed similar side-effects.
Due to differences in methods it was difficult to compare our results to those obtained in other studies.
Paradoxical embolism is well-known in theory but rarely encountered in clinical practice.
The typical pathophysiological background is the coincidence of venous thrombosis, elevated right atrial pressure, and a consecutive right-to-left shunting via a patent foramen ovale or an atrial septal defect.
This review summarizes the results of internal cardioversion of atrial fibrillation in comparison to external cardioversion.
Internal cardioversion was achieved by positioning defibrillation electrodes in the right atrium and coronary sinus (alternatively in the left pulmonary artery).
In previous studies also a combined internal/external cardioversion was used by locating a defibrillation electrode in the right atrium together with a cutaneous patch electrode.
Although in comparative studies the success rate of 91-93% with internal cardioversion is higher compared to success rates of 67-79% with external cardioversion, the conventional method of external cardioversion remains the method of first choice.
The success rate of internal cardioversion after failed external cardioversion ranges from 73 to over 90%.
Possible indications for primary internal cardioversion are: induced atrial fibrillation during electrophysiological studies, atrial fibrillation after cardiothoracic surgery and cardioversion of atrial fibrillation in patients with permanent pacemaker implants.
Objective: The objective of the study is to evaluate the importance of home care for patients with advanced tumor diseases and for their families.
VDD single-lead systems use floating ring electrodes for atrial sensing.
To ensure an optimal atrial sensing function, knowledge of the interactions between electrode design, pacemaker, amplifier and implantation technique is required.
In this overview, technical determinants of atrial sensing concerning atrial ring configuration (surface area, ring spacing, full/half ring), design of the lead (insulation material, conductor coil configuration), and amplifier design (differential amplifier, sensing impedance, bandpass filter) shall be explained and related to determinants at implant (AV distance, site of implantation, atrial position, intraoperative measurement technique).
(1) Ring configuration: Bipolar atrial full ring systems have proved to be efficient with narrow (5-10mm) or wide (15-30mm) ring spacing, as well as bipolar half ring systems with DAB configuration and narrow ring spacing.
Especially in a position close to the atrial wall, a wide ring spacing detects a less clear-cut signal than a short ring spacing; on the other hand, with a wide ring spacing, sensing is less compromised if the rings move to a worse position further away from the wall.
A narrow ring spacing detects a sharper signal if positioned close to the atrial wall, but a considerable reduction of sensed P wave amplitude may result if it moves away from the wall or to an oblique angle relative to the atrial depolarization front.
(2) Design of the lead: Polyurethane as insulation material provides a higher stiffness than silicone insulation.
A coaxial conductor configuration increases stiffness and consequently the possibility to manipulate the atrial part of the lead.
Thus, if a position close to the atrial wall is desired, the combination of a coaxial conductor coil, polyurethane insulation, and a narrow ring spacing seems most promising.
(3) Amplifier design: For atrial sensing in VDD systems, bipolar sensing, differential amplifier, high sensing impedance (>=2k), and a wide bandpass filter (e.g., 10-100Hz) should be realized.
Especially the inclusion of a relatively low frequency range (10-40Hz) is important, because compared to a fixed atrial electrode, a higher quantity of the atrial signal sensed by a floating electrode is in the low-frequency range.
(4) Implantation: To choose the best fitting electrode, a preoperative assessment of the size of the right cardiac cavities should be performed.
A position of the ring electrodes in the mid-to-high right atrium parallel to the lateral wall should be the goal.
Correct interpretation of the sensed P wave amplitude and prediction of sufficient sensing after connection with the pacemaker is only possible with exact knowledge of the measurement technique of the intraoperative pacing system analyzer and the connected permanent pacemaker device (bandpass filter, signal peak-to baseline or peak-to-peak).
Attention should be paid to the fixation of the electrode at the site of insertion to avoid postoperative dislocation of the ring electrodes.
Knowledge of different electrode/pacemaker specific parameters and special aspects at implantation is a prerequisite for optimal function of VDD single-lead systems.
Preoperatively, considerations should concern the choice of the electrode (AV distance, ring spacing) and implantation strategy (position close to or rather apart from the atrial wall).
An atrial position may only be accepted if sufficient sensing can be documented with a measuring method similar to that of the implanted pacemaker.
Objectives: To investigate the agreement (and its potential dependency on extravascular lung water) between transpulmonary (TPID) and standard pulmonary artery (PAID) thermodilution cardiac output  measurements.
In the industrial Western world, 8 % of the population suffer from urogenital discomfort.
Epidemiologic studies show that the incidence rises with age.
In light of the steadily increasing longevity in the female population, clinically manifested irregularities such as urogenital atrophy, recurrent urinary tract infections, irritable bladder, and incontinence pose a challenge to the attending physician.
To this day, urinary incontinence in later life is considered "normal" and "caused by old age."
However, among other age-related reasons, the main cause of this disorder is postmenopausal hormone deficiency.
Thus, following thorough diagnostics, pathological changes in the urogenital tract can often be reduced or altogether eliminated by simple conservative measures such as topical hormone administration, which rapidly enhance patients' quality of life.
The present study gives an overview of the physiology of urogenital aging and the diagnostic and therapeutic means available to physicians to alleviate patients' discomfort.
Recurrent abdominal pain (RAP) is one of the most common pain syndromes in childhood, with prevalence rates ranging from 10 to 20% in all school-age children.
In nearly 50% the complaints persist over many years of their life-span to adolescence or adulthood.
Although the empirical findings have increased in the last decade, our knowledge about the etiology, pathogenesis, and pathophysiology is still very limited.
Current approaches suggest that we understand recurrent pain syndromes as a complex and multidimensional disturbance (biopsychosocial paradigm).
In this respect there is strong evidence for the major importance of psychosocial causes (daily hassles, specific life events), psychopathological factors (anxiety, depression, somatization disorder), and social environmental influences (mother's psychopathology, social modelling, reinforcement) in the pathogenesis of functional abdominal pain.
The noticeable correlation with other pain syndromes and functional disturbances indicates that recurrent pain may possibly be a manifestation of a basic somatization disorder.
The unfavourable long-term prognosis supports the need for early and specific interventions.
Psychological treatment requires a medical examination to exclude organic origins.
Some of these invasive diagnostic procedures can be very difficult, expensive and distressing for the child.
Behavioural medicine is based upon having an extensive family history and symptom analysis.
The psychological interventions applied in clinical practice include prophylaxis, reduction of pain symptoms and environmental modification.
In recent years there has been an increasing trend to create more complex and multidimensional behavioural treatment programs for children.
Although preliminary data on the use of these behavioural medicine programs have shown some promise, further investigations are needed to examine the applicability and effectiveness of specific interventions in the treatment of abdominal pain symptoms.
Dermatologic disorders of the stump in patients with a leg amputation may have characteristic pathophysiologic and clinical features.
A knowledge of these factors may lead to earlier diagnosis and avoid immobilization.
There ist no German language review of this aspect of dermatology.
After providing an overview of the problem, including a discussion of prostheses, we review the following problems: mechanically induced blisters, follicular keratoses, epidermoid cysts, stump edema syndrome, acroangiodermatitis (pseudo-kaposi sarcoma) and verrucous hyperplasia.
Secondary aortoenteric fistulas are a well-known complication after open repair of an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
This is the first case description of an aortoenteric fistula after endoluminal treatment of an abdominal aortic aneurysm.
Preoperative diagnosis by antigranulocyte immunscintigraphy established infection of the protheses.
The problem was solved by closing the defect of duodenum, removing the endoprotheses and in situ reconstruction with omentumplasty.
The reasons and consequences are discussed.
Concepts in the treatment of craniomaxillofacial fractures have changed over the last 15 years.
Modern imaging techniques have become a central part in establishing a proper diagnosis.
Advanced life support and intensive care medicine allow for early primary fracture treatment.
The former principles of minimal exposure of bone fragments using small incisions have been replaced by principles from reconstructive craniofacial surgery comprising extensive subperiosteal dissection, exposure of all fracture lines, open reduction and rigid internal fixation.
Missing bony structures are replaced primarily by autogenous bone grafts.
Using these concepts, most late esthetic and functional sequelae of facial fractures can be diminished remarkably.
In a 20-year period (1974-1993), 4230 patients underwent surgery of the gallbladder.
Acute cholecystitis was the indication for emergency laparotomy in 869 patients (20,5 %).
Retrospective analysis demonstrated that after adjustment for age, sex, and mode of surgery - elective versus emergency - advanced age is not a risk factor contributing to mortality in uncomplicated cases of emergency surgery.
Cases of acute cholecystitis complicated by perforation, peritonitis, and/or the presence of concrements in the biliary duct are associated with an increased mortality, however.
We were able to demonstrate that advanced age is a risk factor in complicated cases and contributes to increased post-surgical mortality.
The clinical effect of ionidizing radiation on ocular neovascularizations is controversial not only because of the variety of treatment modalities.
The aim of our study was to investigate an experimental model which allows to evaluate radiation parameters and to study the mechanism of the inhibitory effect on neoangiogenesis.
We report on a 59-year-old woman patient with selective IgA deficiency and familial hypercholesterinaemia.
To lower elevated LDL levels in the patient's blood, immunoadsorption therapy with sheep-anti-human polyclonal antibodies coupled to sepharose columns was administered.
During the procedure, the patient developed an anaphylactic shock requiring intensive care treatment.
The patient's history revealed a fresh cell therapy with fetal sheep cells 10 years previously.
Intracutaneous testing confirmed sensitization to sheep immunoglobulin, which was the most likely reason for the anaphylactic shock.
A nationwide survey was performed to evaluate the significance of knee replacement (endoprosthesis) in Germany.
All orthopaedic, traumatologic and general surgeons were asked about their preferred surgical techniques, favourite types of prosthesis and related issues.
Sledge prostheses have been increasingly preferred to constrained prostheses in the last few years.
Unicompartmental prostheses as well as constrained prostheses and high tibial osteotomies are still chosen for special cases.
Revisions were most commonly due to patella problems.
Patella replacement is popular to prevent this problem.
Endoprosthetic knee surgery receives as much endorsement among German surgeons as endoprosthetic hip surgery.
An important problem is the increasing costs of the method.
Chronic pulmonary hypertension and septic lung failure display different clinical features resulting in severe disturbances in the pulmonary circulation.
In these diseases, the pulmonary bloodflow is impaired by a pathologic constriction of blood vessels that may lead to right ventricular overloading as well as serious worsening of gas exchange mainly caused by ventilation/perfusion mismatch.
Various mechanisms deteriorating the vascular function may induce both an irreversible and a reversible contraction of pulmonary vessels, respectively.
Two pharmacological approaches exist to reduce the vascular resistance:...
Objective: to examine mortality, mobility, pain, institutionalization rates six month after hip fractures.
Lateral acetabular osteotomy in comparison to three-dimensional osteotomies of the pelvis in hip dysplasia is a simple technical procedure.
Contraindications are an age over 8 years and an irreducible femoral head.
For a long time we have used xenogenic deproteinized bone wedges from animals.
We now use autoclaved and deep-frozen wedges from allogenic femoral heads.
The wedges are sterilized at 121  °C for 20 min and then kept deep-frozen in the bone bank.
Our results in 109 patients show that this method is very successful; even extreme angles of acetabular index correction are possible with this technique.
It is unfortunate that the lateral acetabuloplasty with autoclaved allogenic bone graft is not used frequently and we recommend that this method be installed at all paediatric orthopaedic hospitals.
There are only few publications about the effect of music therapy on pain relief.
The intention of this prospective study is to demonstrate the influence of the Nordoff/Robbins method of active music therapy in a group of 12 patients with fibromyalgia, myofascial pain syndromes and polyarthritis on pain reduction, life quality and coping.
The clinical parameters of each patient were related to the observations in the audio- and video-documented music therapy settings and to the self-reported changes in pain intensity and pain behaviour.
There was a significant reduction of pain intensity and pain-related disability in the music group compared to a control group, but no change in the depression and anxiety score.
The influence of music therapy could be even better demonstrated in the systematic analysis of the single cases by individual profiles.
Active music therapy affects especially the communicative and emotional dimension of chronic pain.
Psychophysiological and psychodynamic models are presented to explain the effectiveness of music therapy on pain reduction.
Clinical studies on music therapy as well as on other "art therapies" should relate the analysis of clinical parameters to the descriptive-phenomenological documentation of the therapeutic process to demonstrate systematically the influence of music and art in the individual case.
Background: Retrospective analysis to  assess the value of the sequential arginine-insulin-test (SAIT) in the diagnosis of growth hormone deficiency (GHD).
Case Report: The case of a 57-year-old woman is reported who was admitted for peripheral hypereosinophilia.
Auditory similarities in voices of monozygotic twins have already been described in the literature.
However, is there a clinical relevance?
Thus, the present study was designed to identify parameters of vocal performance and acoustic features which are significantly more similar in monozygotic twins than in non-related persons.
In our hypothesis, comparable prerequisites for an increased vocal load in a profession or in an artistic education of the voice could be due to these similarities.
We compared intra-pair differences with data from a control group.
Moreover, we examined the correlation of intra-pair differences with the age of the monozygotic twins.
A greater difference in older twin pairs than in younger pairs could show the effect of an exogene influence.
In addition to the few phoniatric studies in twins in the literature, we used current methods for acoustic analysis.
We examined seven parameters of vocal performance and three acoustic features in 31 monozygotic twin pairs (median age 36 years, range 18-75 years) and compared them with 30 control group pairs, which consisted of non-related persons of the same age and sex, newly combined from the group of monozygotic twins ("statistical twins").
We found significant differences in seven of ten parameters (vocal range, highest and lowest vocal fundamental frequency, fundamental speaking frequency, maximum voice intensity, number of partials, vibrato of intensity; U-test by Mann-Whitney).
No correlation of the differences of the identical twins with age was found in the examined parameters.
The voices of identical twins are significantly more similar than those of non-related persons regarding the above mentioned features.
Thus, the suitability of the voices of monozygotic twins for professions with a high demand on voice is comparable.
Results of the group comparison correlate largely with the literature.
The missing correlation with age could be due to the fact that the environmental effects were not measurable, and/or the development of the voice is more influenced by genetic effects.
After > 10 000 treatments - our HM3/4 and MPL 9000 have been replaced by the Siemens Lithostar multiline.
As a ESWL center with ESWL as the primary treatment indication for all types of stones in kidney and ureter we report our initial experience with this new multifunctional lithotripter.
The system consists of an electromagnetic shock-wave emitter (Focus 80 x 5 mm) and a digital fluoroscopy unit.
Stone localization is achieved in a - 10 ° and + 30  ° position without movement of the patient.
The treatment table itself allows most endourologic and percutaneous auxiliary procedures.
Additionally, an intergrated inline ultrasound is available.
From 10/94 to 08/95, 204 male and 96 female patients with a mean age of 50.7 (4-92) years underwent ESWL with the Lithostar multiline.
The mean stone diameter was 10.3 (2-20) mm with 53 % ureteral and 47 % renal stones.
300 patients underwent 480 treatments (average shocks 3673, range 793-8000; mean energy level 5.5, range 1-9).
Stone localization was achieved after 5 (1-39) min (mean fluoroscopy time 3.1 (0.5-16.2) min).
In 92.7 % no analgesic premedication was done.
56 % of the patients needed no analgesics at all during ESWL.
44 % received 8.1 (2-15) mg Piritramid intravenously.
Epidural anesthesia was performed in only 2.3 % for a second treatment.
95 % of the patients had complete stone disintegration.
In 68 % disintegration was achieved in one session.
ESWL was repeated for further disintegration in 18.5 %, because of an unsuccessful treatment in 11.5 % and because of technical interruption of the previous session in 2.5 %.
We saw subkapsular haematomas in 2 %.
Auxiliary procedures following ESWL were necessary in only 9.2 % of the patients.
In situ ESWL with the new Lithostar Multiline seems to be as effective as the Dornier HM3/4.
Analgesia-free treatment was performed in more than 50 % of the patients.
Auxiliary procedures were less frequently necessary as compared to our previous experience with in situ ESWL.
We report on a strikingly frequent referral of former preterm babies with respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) infection and subsequent ARDS in our hospital during the winter 1994/95 with regard to the clinical course under application of alternative treatment modalities.
Treatment modalities like inhalational ribavirin, use of bronchodilators and instillation of surfactant had been tried without success.
All children (age: 1-43 months) were ventilated for 6.6 (1-17) days with FiO2 = 1.0 and a mean airway pressure of 16.4 (10-24) cm H2O.
Mean arterial blood gases were 49 (paO2) and 41 (pCO2) mm Hg, the OI was 33.4.
By inhalational NO in combination with IPPV or HFOV 4 patients could be stabilized, in the other 6 ECMO became necessary.
Two of them died in spite of several weeks on ECMO; 8 children survived and could be discharged home after a mean hospital stay of 3 months.
Even in very severe cases of RSV infection treatment modalities like NO, HFOV and ECMO can be used successfully.
The use of these treatment modalities must be considered before the lung damage is irreversible; in those cases a pre-existing BPD is no contraindication even for extracorporeal lung support.
The vascular organization of human spermatic cord was analyzed by means of injection and by casting preparation of the testicular artery and veins of the pampiniform plexus after orchiectomy.
After leaving the human testis, the testicular veins are organized in two main groups and form two vein plexus.
One of these vein groups forms a tight plexus around the testicular artery.
Computer-aided 3-D reconstructions based on the paraffin serial sections of the human spermatic cord allowed us to demonstrate the relation between the blood vessels and the other tissue structures of the spermatic cord.
The results obtained allowed us to subdivide the human spermatic cord into three compartments.
The dorsomedial compartment contains the vas deferens and its blood vessels.
The middle compartment contains the testicular artery and the vein group which forms a tight plexus around this artery.
The ventrolateral compartment contains a vein group which shows no topographic relation to the testicular artery.
This vein group is embedded in a large, macroscopically visible volume of fatty tissue.
To be sure of sparing the testicular artery during antegrade sclerotherapy this vein group should be prepared.
It has known for a long time that Sydenham's chorea and tics, as seen in Gilles de la Tourette's syndrome (GTS), are phenomenologically very similar.
Tics may occur as symptoms of acute Sydenham's chorea or persist over years as residual symptoms.
Investigations of children suffering from GTS, including obsessive-compusilve symptoms, have provided signs of a poststreptococcal autoimmune process but also shown that treatment based on immunological interventions has been effective.
We treated a 14-year-old boy showing all diagnostic criteria of GTS, familial susceptibility, and an increase in the antibody titer of streptococcal antigens with 7S immunoglobulins i.v.
Response to this therapy was good regarding motor tics, vocal tics, and behavioral symptoms such as disturbed impulse control which still persisted after 9 months.
These findings and the successful therapy underline reports of the literature and point to a pathogenetic mechanism of an immunologically triggered disturbance of the striatal dopaminergic system, at least in a subgroup of GTS.
We report on three cases with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (IDDM) or prediabetes.
All three patients suffered from autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type II.
Among our patients with isolated IDDM (about 250 patients) no case of ITP was seen.
Therefore we recommend that all patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura and insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus should be carefully monitored for other diseases associated with autoimmune polyglandular syndrome type II.
The high rate of coronary artery disease (CAD) mortality needs preventive intervention.
Several studies have documented the effectiveness of LDL-cholesterol lowering in CAD primary prevention.
The West of Scotland Prevention Study resulted in risk reduction by about one third through LDL-cholesterol lowering.
The data indicate that specifically patients at high risk benefit from lipid reduction.
High risk patients have besides high LDL-cholesterol one or more additional risk factors such as family history of premature coronary artery disease, hypertension, smoking, low HDL-cholesterol or diabetes.
Therapy primarily aims at life style changes, secession of smoking and weight reduction as well as dietary changes to achieve LDL-cholesterol levels of 115-175 mg/dl (3-4.5 mmol/L), depending on the individual risk constellation.
This strategy allows to reduce the number of patients needed to treat in order to prevent one CAD event (56 in isolated hypercholesterolemia) to 14-24 in high risk persons, approaching the number (n=13) known for effective lipid lowering in secondary prevention of coronary heart disease.
One hundred and three cases of Spitz nevi were reviewed.
36% of these patients were adults.
The lesions in children occurred primarily on the face and secondarily on the trunk followed by the extremities.
In adults, they affect the legs in women, and the trunk in men as does malignant melanoma.
Clinically they were diagnosed more frequently as Spitz nevi in children and adolescents than in adults.
Spitz nevi were most commonly mistaken clinically for "common" melanocytic nevus, hemangioma, verruca, fibrous histiocytoma, molluscum contagiosum, granuloma pyogenicum, keloid, and melanoma.
Histologically, there are various expressions of Spitz nevi, but they are usually compound melanocytic nevi with little pigmentation and typically large spindle- and/or epithelioid melanocytes.
There are only small histopathological differences between Spitz nevi in childhood and adulthood: one important feature rarely seen in Spitz nevi of adults is multiple mitotic figures at the dermo-epidermal junction but rarely at the base of the melanocytic nevus.
Nevus Reed is considered to possibly be a distinctly pigmented variant of Spitz nevus.
A few months ago an endovascular implantable PTFE stent graft became commercially available.
Since May 1998 we have treated 15 patients with extensive vascular occlusion at the femoropopliteal level.
The implantation is carried out via a single inguinal approach in combination with conventional vascular surgical techniques like orthograde ringstripping of the superficial femoral artery, local TEA and patch-grafting of the femoral bifurcation, angioplasty, local lysis, etc.
The self-expanding thin-walled PTFE stent prothesis appears to be a viable alternative to the femoropopliteal P1 bypass and can be performed under local anesthesia, percutaneously or through a small inguinal incision.
The implantation can be carried out with minimal tissue trauma.
Radiological and orthopaedic outcome in severe and moderate haemophilia A and B patients undergoing long-term prophylactic treatment were prospectively investigated focusing on the age of onset of prophylaxis and the number of joint bleedings prior to treatment.
We report on 21 patients with severe and moderate haemophilia A and B receiving prophylactic treatment of between 3.1 and 16.1 years duration.
Three patient groups were evaluated according to the age at onset of prophylaxis.
In group I (n = 8) prophylactic treatment was initiated in the first 2 years of life.
Patients of group II (n = 6) received prophylaxis at the age of 3-6 years.
Late-onset or secondary prophylactic treatment was started at the age of 6 years and above in 7 patients (group III).
All patients received virus-inactivated F VIII or F IX concentrates at dosages of 30-40 IU, in some cases up to 50 IU/kg body weight i. v. three times per week for those with haemophilia A and twice per week for those with haemophilia B. Elbow, knee and ankle joints were investigated at 3-4 yearly intervals according to the radiological and orthopaedic scores recommended by the World Federation of Haemophilia (WFH).
The total number of joint bleedings before and after start of prophylaxis were recorded in all patients.
In group I 7 out of 8 patients had unaffected joints with constant radiological and orthopaedic scores of zero or 1, after a median of 11.25 years of prophylactic treatment.
One patient in this group demonstrated mild radiological alterations (score 4).
Patients of group II showed neither radiological nor orthopaedic alterations at study entry.
Worsening joint scores could be detected despite ongoing prophylaxis after the 3-year interval (median orthopaedic score 4, median radiological score 8).
Treatment group III already showed considerable joint damage at study entry with a median radiological score of 11 (0-33) and a median orthopaedic score of 4 (0-11).
Despite prophylactic treatment both, orthopaedic (median 8, range 2-12) and radiological scores (median 19.5, range 2-47) deteriorated after 3 years.
Prior to onset of prophylaxis no or only one joint bleeding occurred in treatment group I.
In group II, a median of 6 joint bleeds (range 1-8) were reported before prophylaxis was started.
Patients of group III usually experienced a median of more than 10 joint haemorrhages (range 6-10 or more).
Under prophylactic treatment the number of joint bleedings decreased significantly in groups II and III.
However, radiological and orthopaedic scores increased as a sign of progressing osteoarthropathic alterations in patients reporting more than 6 joint haemorrhages before onset of prophylaxis whereas no joint alterations could be assessed in patients with no or only one joint bleeding episode prior to prophylaxis.
Even a small number of joint bleedings seems to cause irreversible osteoarthropathic alterations leading to haemophilic arthropathy.
Once apparent, further progression of joint damage could not be arrested despite of prophylactic treatment (group II and III).
In order to prevent haemophilic arthropathy, effective prophylaxis should be started before or at least after the first joint bleeding in severe haemophilia A and B.
The hemodynamic treatment of septic shock consists of fluid repletion, maintenance of an adequate cardiac output, and restoration of mean arterial pressure.
Norepinephrine is a potent vasopressor that can be considered when the patient is adequately fluid resuscitated, when cardiac output is greater than 3.5 l/min/m2 (or Sv O2>=65%) and when blood pressure remains low.
The objective is to achieve and maintain a mean arterial pressure of 60-70 mmHg, or more in some patients (older or hypertensive patients).
Renal effects of norepinephrine were evaluated in several studies; urine output, creatinine clearance, and osmolar clearance are significantly increased.
Norepinephrine is perfectly suited in situations of high renal output and low renal resistance, as is the case in septic shock patients.
The effect on oxygen transport is unpredictable.
The effects on lactate concentrations were poorly evaluated, but several studies suggest that the drug does not worsen and can even improve tissue oxygenation of septic shock patients.
Provided that cardiac output is maintained, treatment with norepinephrine is without negative effects on splanchnic tissue oxygenation.
In conclusion, the clinical experience with norepinephrine strongly suggests that this drug can successfully increase blood pressure without deteriorating cardiac output and organ function.
Whether using norepinephrine in septic shock patients effects mortality as compared to dopamine or epinephrine still requires a prospective study.
Is it possible to find a correlation between the localisation of neovascularisations and the localisation and extension of the retinal ischemia?
Ischemia was recognized not as capillary non-perfusion but as impaired retinal perfusion.
Elderly patients with known episodes of atrial arrhythmia and indication to pacemaker therapy are borderline cases relative to selection of ventricular single-chamber or dual-chamber pacemaker.
The frequency of recurrence of arrhythmic episodes under dual-chamber pacemaker therapy is there the most important criterion.
The differences between patients prone to paroxysmal atrial tachyarrhythmia (atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter) and patients without atrial tachyarrhythmia in their medical history were investigated.
Frequency of recurrence of atrial fibrillation/flutter and the rate of successful therapy after implantation of a dual chamber pacemaker were studied.
The long-term history of 39 patients with known intermittent or durably successfully treated episodes of atrial fibrillation/flutter was compared with 24 patients with new atrial tachyarrhythmia after pacemaker implantation.
There was no significant difference in the frequency of recurrence and in therapy efficiency of atrial tachyarrhythmia between both groups.
The results show the benefit of implanting a dual chamber pacemaker also for patients with a known history of atrial tachyarrhythmia.
It therefore, should be postulated for therapy of those patients.
Although the risks and side effects of blood transfusions have been significantly reduced during the past years, the potential infectious and immunologic side effects still require a clear and restricted indication before each transfusion is performed.
However, the transfusion errors before and during administration of blood components nowadays represent the highest risk in particular for critical care and high risk patients.
This article focuses on the specific problems of handling, preparation, and practical performance of transfusions.
Some practical aspects and problems of transfusions are examplary shown for intensive care and high risk patients, such as immunosuppressed, transplanted or polytraumatic patients and critical care premature neonates.
Vincent's angina (Plaut-Vincent) is the most prominent disease caused by coinciding infections from fusibacteria and spirochaeta both belonging to obligate anaerobic bacterias.
A possible symbiotic infection of both anaerobics may become manifest on the mucous membranes of the oral cavity and the oropharynx beside the tonsillas.
The clinical outcome may be different and pose difficulties in the differential diagnosis.
We report the case of a 29 year old female patient with necrotizing ulcera of the soft palate suspicious for stomatitis ulceromembranacea.
In case necrotizing inflammations of the oral cavity area were to be found infections due to anaerobic bacterias should be considered mostly occuring as mixed infections.
The correct identification by cultivation turnes out to be difficult in that it requires special conditions.
Furthermore, reliable detection of these bacterias necessitates careful collection and transport of patients specimens.
In case of Fusospirochaetosis (Fusotreponematose) a specimen should be prepared for microscopic examination beside setting up a special culture.
This is because the staining is the most suitable procedure for bacteril identification to support the clinical diagnosis of stomatitis ulceromembranacea.
Quantitative tissue Doppler echocardiography is a new diagnostic approach to left ventricular systolic performance.
The aim of the present study was to validate a recently developed method based on the computer software TDI-Labor enabling a variable time and space related measurement of regional wall velocity from tissue Doppler images.
Therefore, in 63 volunteers the mean velocity of a 2 mm thick subendocardial slice during the systolic ejection period was determined from frozen Doppler M-mode images of the left ventricular posterior wall obtained using the left parasternal window.
The same images were employed for comparative measurement of the mean endocardial velocity using the conventional M-mode slope approach.
Tissue Doppler data of the subendocardial wall velocity were found to correspond closely to the mean endocardial wall velocity (y = 0.97x + 0.17; r = 0.77; p < 0.0001).
The average wall motion gradient of the population was 1.33  +/-  0.35.
Wall motion velocity and wall motion gradient were shown to be not age dependent.
Historically, the profession of geriatric nurse has arisen from the care of the sick and has developed very differently from region to region.
A question as to the status of development of the profession of geriatric nurse cannot be answered by reference to the current status of legislation on professional law matters.
If experts in that field focus too long on such matters, there is a danger that decisive developments in the profession of geriatric nurse take place outside their field of vision.
It is reported about the recent detection of not yet compensated victims of forced sterilisation during the Third Reich.
The author describes the current state of compensation practice.
From a global viewpoint, tuberculosis is one of the most important infectious diseases of our time.
The situation in Germany, as in most comparable industrialized nations, is stable.
The declining trend of previous years continued in 1997, when 11,163 people developed active tuberculosis - an incidence of 13.6/100,000.
However, the tuberculosis  problem cannot be restricted to one country, and Germany is particularly affected by trends in Eastern Europe and in the former Soviet countries.
These countries experienced a marked increase of tuberculosis  cases and resistant strains during recent  years, a tendency which can only be countered by fast, well-aimed and efficient action in the affected areas.
The industrialized nations in particular should consider financial and logistic contributions as their duty.
Crucial for control of the tuberculosis situation  within each country are registration and  close observation of epidemiological trends, identification of high-risk groups, and continuation of established tuberculosis control measures.
We report about a 61 years old patient, who suffered a rare ulnar dislocation of the ellbow after being arrested by the police.
We report on the eighth known case of a mature metastasis of a mature teratoma of the testis.
In a 19-year-old patient who had undergone a pyeloplasty of the left renal pelvis 6 years before, a mature metastasis of an occult mature teratoma of the testis was found at the former operation site.
This case - in addition to those published previously - emphasizes the fact that a mature teratoma of the testis has to be regarded as a malignant tumor in adults.
It is supposed that the mature teratoma originates, as other testicular tumors, from carcinoma-in-situ-cells, which are responsible for metastasize and are not detected after lysis.
Angiofibromas are usually characterized by their occurences in adolescent males with a typical localization and involvement of the posterior nasal cavity and nasopharynx.
Even the suspicion of an extranasopharyngeal angiofibroma or an angiofibroma in young children must be viewed in general with skepticism, although reports of angiofibromas with atypical localizations and manifestations in young children have appeared in the literature.
Three cases of this fibro-vascular neoplasm with manifestations in the first decade of life and atypical localizations are presented: (1) an angiofibroma medial to the left lacrimal sac in a 15-month old boy, (2) a right paranasal localization in a 9-year-old boy and (3) an angiofibroma limited to the right sphenoid sinus in a 6-year old boy.
In all three cases the neoplasm was resected via an endonasal, micro-endoscopic approach that avoided an external incision.
According to the literature and based on our own experiences with typical histological findings in all three cases, the clinician has to be aware that the rare angiofibroma can occur in pre-adolescent children with atypical localizations.
The endonasal surgical approach is without any doubt the least traumatic one and in selected cases allows resection of a circumscribed tumor considering functional and aesthetic aspects.
Objective: Chronic recurrent abdominal pain in childhood is frequently due to a Helicobacter pylori-associated gastritis.
The diagnosis should be verified either by gastric biopsy culture or by histological investigations of the gastric mucosa in children.
The gastroscopy necessary for this often requires general anesthesia.
The purpose of the present study was to etablish whether an ELISA for Helicobacter pylori has an adequate predictive reliability with regard to the putative gastric histology in order to possibly prevent unnecessary biopsies and associated anesthesias.
Complete dislocated fractures of the thoracic spine may have no neurological deficits if separation is present in the middle of the dorsal column.
In this case there is no injury to the spinal cord, because the "saving fracture" of the vertebral arc prevents it.
One case of a severe dislocated fracture at T11-12 is reported.
In practice, a complete set of X-rays should be done after high-speed trauma, even if no neurological deficit is present.
The treatment is operative by open reduction and fusion from the ventral or dorsal column.
Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid (GHB) is a naturally occurring transmitter in the mammalian brain, related to sleep regulation and possibly to energy balance in diving or hibernating animals.
It has been used for almost 35 years as an intravenous agent for induction of anaesthesia and for long-term sedation.
Its convincing pharmacological properties, without serious adresse effects on circulation or respiration, are compromised by its unpredictable duration of action.
This is not a major problem with long-term sedation during ICU treatment.
GHB has been used with good results for sedation of patients with severe brain injury, where it compares favourably with barbiturates.
In animal studies, it seems to possess a protective action against hypoxia on a cellular and whole organ level.
However, in some experimental animals GHB has been shown to produce seizure-like activities, and the compound is being used to produce absence-like seizures.
GHB has been used in our ICU for years to provide adequate sedation for patients under controlled ventilation or for patients figthing the respirator during spontaneous respiration.
No serious side effects were observed in these patients, while in some patients under haemodialysis hypernatraemia and metabolic alkalosis developed; both were reversible after discontinuation of GHB and restriction of additional sodium input (Somsanit, the commercially available GHB preparation in Germany, contains 9.2 mmol sodium/g; the daily dose averages 20-40 g GHB, i.e.
In Europe ultrasonography has displaced diagnostic peritoneal lavage (DPL) in the primary survey of polytraumatized patients with suspected abdominal trauma.
Hemodynamically unstable patients who are brought to the emergency room with blunt abdominal trauma will go directly to the operating room after a rapid ultrasonography examination with evidence of hemoperitoneum.
In hemodynamically stable patients, in addition to ultrasonography, computed tomography can be done.
This is especially efficient if evaluation with sonography is not completely possible or shows little pathology (e.g.
small amounts of hemoperitoneum).
We report on a posttraumatic aneurysm of the brachiocephalic trunk, something which is rather rare.
The injury was caused by blunt chest trauma following a car accident.
Computed tomography could not find the brachiocephalic lesion.
In patients with fractures of the upper ribs after blunt chest trauma, angiography should be done to exclude severe injuries of the aorta and brachiocephalic vessels.
Even after the strengthening by the law of 1997, the German criminal law regarding corruption is no obstacle for cooperation between medical research and industry.
The injustice of corruption is an irregular exchange between performing one's duty and benefits.
According to this, an enterprise may give funds to a scientist for research purposes if no counter performance exceeding the research is associated with this.
However, it makes a difference if the scientist has to show his appreciation by influencing economic decisions of the clinic in favor of the enterprise.
In case of such an injustice, it is, under the new law, no longer important if the benefit is destined for the scientist himself or for another person or organization.
Thus, it is in the interest of both research and industry to avoid the suspicion of corruption in the first place.
A prerequisite for this is the strict observance of the legal and administrative regulations concerning projects financed by third-party funds.
Since the immune system plays an important role in the rejection of tumours, current tumour therapy includes immunostimulation.
This can be done by interleukin 2 (Il-2), which activates T and killer cells and induces lysis of the tumour.
Because the intravenous application of Il-2 may have serious side effects, we treated two patients with peritumoral injections in a pilot study.
Both patients suffered from multiple cutaneous metastases of melanoma.
A total of 31 and 39x106 IU recombinant Il-2 (Proleukin) respectively was injected in increasing concentrations in one metastasis of each patient.
Histologically, almost complete necrosis of the tumour was induced.
In comparison with the control specimen, the T-cell-rich infiltrate increased intra- and, in particular, peritumorally.
While the ratio of helper to suppressor T cells remained unchanged, the proportions of NK cells, monocytes/macrophages and IL-2-receptor-bearing cells increased.
This reaction was restricted to treated metastases.
No clinical side effects or laboratory changes were registered apart from local erythema and swelling.
Wear of the articulating components (especially PE-UHMW) of total hip endoprostheses is the most important technical factor limiting the functional lifetime.
To minimize wear debris, ceramic heads, according to ISO 6474 (Al2O3), have been used, from 1969 paired with Al2O3 and since 1975 paired with PE-UHMW.
Al2O3 balls articulating with cups made from CFRP have been in clinical use since 1988.
Laboratory experiments and in-vivo testing showed minimized wear debris and mild biological response to wear products using CFRP (carbon fiber reinforced plastic) instead of PE-UHMW as the cup material.
The articulating surfaces of retrieved ceramic heads (Al2O3 - Biolox) and cementless CFRP cups (carbon fiber reinforced plastic, Caproman) were compared using sphericity measurement techniques, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and roughness measurements (including advanced roughness parameters Rvk or Rpk according to ISO 4287).
Altogether, the first results of the clinical study showed that the combination Al2O3-ball/CFRP-cup came up to the expected lower wear rates compared with the conventional combinations.
The wear rates are comparable with the combination Al2O3/Al2O3 without the material-related problems of ceramic components in all ceramic combinations.
Two cases where DNA typing has been carried out for stain analysis are described.
In both cases Y chromosomal STR systems have been used in combination with autosomal STR systems.
In the first case the DNA from the fingernails of a female victim with skin particles of the male murderer was typed.
The male DNA in this mixture of male and female DNA could be typed.
The excess of female DNA in the samples did not distrub the PCR reaction of Y-chromosomal systems.
In the second case several body parts could be identified to belong to a single male person.
The typing of the suspect's DNA did not give any information because of a family relationship.
Different kinds of stains have been analysed with DYS 389 I/II, DYS 390, DYS 391, DYS 392 DYS 393 and DYS19.
Two multiplex PCR reactions were carried out to save time and stain material.
Although the Y-chromosomal systems are not as polymorphic as autosomal STR systems the analysis of combined haplotypes can give additional information in forensic casework.
In a prospectively designed randomized study, we compared the efficacy of sublingual nitroglycerine and intravenous enalaprilat in the out-of-hospital treatment of 46 hypertensive patients with pulmonary edema (defined as rales over both lungs and systolic blood pressure >200 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure >100 mg).
The out-of-hospital treatment consists of oxygen (6 Ll/min) via a face mask, furosemide 80 mg i.v., opioids 10 mg s.c., and either sublingual nitroglycerine (n=23; initial dose: 0.8 mg; repetitive application of 0.8 mg every 10 min until a cumulative dose of 3.2 mg) or intravenous enalaprilat (initial dose: 2.5 mg; repetitive application of 2.5 mg every 30 min until a cumulative dose of 10 mg).
The aim of the antihypertensive treatment was a reduction of systolic blood pressure below 160 mm Hg and diastolic blood pressure below 90 mm Hg until admission to the emergency department.
In the emergency room, an arterial and venous blood sample was taken to determine the respiratory (pO2, pCO2) and metabolic status (pH value; base-excess; serum lactate) of the patient.
Successful antihypertensive treatment was observed in 13/23 (57%) patients of the enalaprilat group and 15/23 (65%) patients of the nitroglycerine group (p=0.54).
Systolic and diastolic blood pressure on admission were similiar in both treatment groups (systolic RR: enalaprilat: 179 [31] mm Hg; nitroglycerine: 184 [38] mm Hg; p=0.59; diastolic RR: enalaprilat: 96 [14] mm Hg; nitroglycerine: 101 [14] mm Hg; p=0.12).
No significant differences were observed between the enalaprilat and the nitroglycerine groups concerning respiratory and metabolic parameters on admission (pO2: 67 [15] vs. 64 [17] mm Hg; p=0.50; pCO2: 46 [9] vs. 47 [13]; p=0.75; pH value: 7.27 [0.12] vs. 7.27 [0.09]; p=0.98; BE: -4.2 [3.7] vs. -5.7 [4.1]; p=0.23; lactate: 4.2 [3.3] vs. 4.2 [2.7]; p=0.98).
Intravenous enalaprilat did not exhibit any advantage compared to nitroglycerine in terms of blood pressure reduction or respiratory and metabolic parameters on admission to the emergency room.
We conclude that enalaprilat is no substitute for nitroglycerine in the out-of-hospital treatment of hypertensive patients with pulmonary edema.
Paragangliomas of the glomus caroticum are relatively rare, but highly vascularized neoplasmas, which develop from chemoreceptors.
They can be develop at anyage, but most often in the third or fourth decade of life.
Paragangliomas grow very slowly and are most always of benign origin.
There is a familial predisposition, and an autosomal-dominant transmission is presumed.
They are commonly located in the jugular region; in rare cases a polytopic manifestation is found.
We describe the case of a 47-year-old male patient who was referred to our department because of a progressive swelling of the neck on both sides.
Contrast-enhanced computed tomography had displayed soft tissue tumors in the jugular regions.
We performed an operative exploration, which showed a highly vascularized tumor.
Histopathologic analysis revealed the diagnosis of a paraganglioma.
An angiography of the neck and thoracic region, furthermore, revealed an additional paraganglioma in the anterior mediastinum.
Using a surgical approach via lateral cervicotomies and thoracotomy the paragangliomas were extirpated.
Our case report demonstrates the rare polytopic manifestation of paragangliomas.
This perivascular neoplasms have to be removed before haemodynamic complications develop.
The extent of this tumors is clearly illustrated by use of an angiography.
Because of the familial predisposition, clinical and radiological examinations of relatives are mandatory.
In more than 30 years of development of intensive care medicine (ICM), our speciality has acquired moral and ethical standpoints, although not without public pressure and discussions.
Special commissions dealing, e.g., with brain death, terminal care, ethics of foregoing life-sustaining treatment in the critically ill, withholding or withdrawing mechanical ventilation, and other issues have meen formed in a number of medical societies.
International consensus conferences have helped to clarify some of the issues.
With increasing experience, a multitude of ethical problems have arisen in ICM that have to be dealt with, such as the issue of quality of life.
What is an unworthy life?
Are we allowed to make judgments for our patients?
What is cost-effectiveness in ICM?
Other restrictions include bed and equipment shortages in the intensive care unit (ICU), the necessity for triage - undisputed in catastrophe medicine - and how one should proceed in managing elective patients?
In situations of limited ICU bed availability, sicker patients will be admitted, sparing out patients who are less ill for observation and those with poor quality of life and poor prognosis.
For the future, it will likely be necessary to define the patients who should be admitted to an ICU more than those who should not be admitted.
An ICU treatment entitlement index would be directly proportional to the probability of successful outcome and the quality of the remaining life, and would be inversely related to costs for achieving success.
The ICU outcome with survival, hospital mortality, and follow-up of ICU patients is considered.
DNR (do not resuscitate), the dying patient, terminal care, terminal weaning - DNT (do not treat) - active and passive euthanasia, living wills, quality of life, and cost-effectiveness for ICU patients are defined.
Their application in the ICU will be discussed and problems pointed out.
Outcome predictions using scores (APACHE III, SAPS II, MPM) have been developed based on previous experience, but should only be applied to patient groups and for quality assurance in ICUs.
The most frequent and difficult problem in the ICU is the vegetative state, which requires an exact diagnosis.
The differential diagnosis from other comatose states such as coma, brain death, and locked-in-syndrome is depicted.
The ethics of interrupting life-sustaining treatment in critically ill patients have been worked out by a Task Force on Ethics of the Society of Critical Care Medicine (1990).
A consensus was found that the patient may judge to forego therapy; ethically it is then appropriate to withhold or withdraw therapy.
According to the consensus, withdrawing an already initiated treatment should not necessarily be regarded as more problematic than a decision not to initiate treatment.
In my mind, however, there is a great difference between withdrawing or withholding, e.g., ventilation.
A dissentive opinion by some members of the Task Force stated that hydration and nutrition other than high-technology or parenteral nutrition are key components of patient care, and should not be equated with medical intervention.
The ethical problems associated with active euthanasia (physician-assisted suicide or death) as practised in the Netherlands are also discussed.
In most countries this practice seems unacceptable.
From 30 years experience in ICM, there are many more ethical questions and case reports without clear solutions.
Care decisions for single patients in unacceptable situations should be made after medical evaluation by the intensivist with the medical team and, if possible, by the patient and/or his or her surrogate.
Legislation and solutions cannot be expected for single patients, but ethics committees could be helpful in decision-making.
Pseudarthroses of the spine are classified into congenital, acquired non-traumatic, posttraumatic and postoperative (iatrogenic) pseudarthroses.
The various types of non-unions of the spine are described according to their clinical and radiological appearance.
In line with their clinical importance, special attention with respect to the operative treatment is given to non-union of the axis of C2 and to spondylolysis.
For the pseudarthrosis of the dens a posterior fusion according to Gallie-Brooks is recommended, in spondylolyses without marked slipping a "direct repair" should be considered in young patients.
207 osteosarcomas were examined morphologically after neoadjuvant chemotherapy according to the COSS-86 protocol using representative slides of one whole tumor plane.
The rate of responders 63 %.
In relapse-free patients both the whole tumors and the vital areas there of were smaller than in patients with relapse during a follow-up period of 5 years.
Within the subgroup of osteoblastic osteosarcomas, metastases were observed following smaller tumors than in chondroblastic osteosarcomas.
Therefore, in addition to degree of regression, histological subtype and tumor size should be considered in the prognostic evaluation of osteosarcomas.
The possibilities of using different material combinations for the replacement of knee joint endoprostheses are very limited.
Therefore, cobalt-chromium-molybdenum alloys are currently being used for femoral components and ultra-high molecular weight polyethylene for tribologically stressed tibial components.
Titanium alloys can be considered for the tibial component only.
The fixation of hamstring grafts in ACL reconstruction requires a connector device.
During the process of ingrowing the graft stability depends entirely on the fixation.
The following study focused on the mechanical conditions of no 6 Ethibond, 5 mm Mersilene tape and 5 mm Polylene tape.
The material were tested as loops with a length of 30 mm including the knot similar to intraoperative conditions.
The ultimate tension load and elongation of the conditioned and unconditioned loops were investigated under cyclic load of 50 N and 100 N using a tension load machine.
The ultimate tension load increased significantly only for Mersilene from 416 N to 462 N. However, the highest ultimate tension load showed Polylene with 479 N. The oscillating load up to 100 N revealed for unconditioned loops and elongation of 4.1 mm for Ethibond, 2.9 mm for Polylene and 5.4 mm for Mersilene.
The elongation decreased significantly for the conditioned loops to a maximum of 1.4 mm.
Concerning the amplitude during the period of oscillating load there was found a significant reduction as well.
Based on our results Polylene showed the best mechanical properties.
Regardless the intraoperatively used material we advocate the conditioning of the loops before anchoring the hamstring graft in ACL reconstruction.
On the basis of the results of 327 knee arthroscopies in children aged between 2 and 17 years in the period from 1985 to 1995 we attempt to evaluate the current status of this procedure.
Arthroscopy as a diagnostic intervention in trauma with haemarthrosis or in any kind of knee effusion is progressively being replaced by sophisticated ultrasound techniques or MRI.
This trend shows a predominant therapeutic use of knee arthroscopy.
Taking our own "incorrect" clinical diagnoses as a starting point we look at common problems in the accurate clinical examination of the symptomatic knee in younger children.
Rational utilization of all kinds of modern diagnostic measures will reduce purely diagnostic arthroscopies in favour of therapeutic endoscopic interventions thus reducing perioperative risks to a minimum.
The pathogenesis of cortical blindness as a rare complication in severe preeclampsia is still unclear.
The case of a women with postpartum blindness is reported in which CT and MRI initially showed cortical and subcortical edema in the parieto-occipital lobes.
At this time cerebral angiography and transcranial color-coded sonography (TCCS) revealed widespread cerebral vasospasm.
Mean blood flow velocities in the middle and posterior cerebral artery and carotid syphon initially reached 380 cm/s and normalized within 2 weeks.
While the patient's vision improved rapidly, follow-up MRI disclosed ischemic lesions and petechial hemorrhage in the occipital cortex.
This case provides rare documentation that transient blindness in patients with preeclampsia may result from parieto-occipital ischemia due to cerebral vasospasm.
In such patients TCCS may be useful to detect vasospasm associated with preeclampsia/eclampsia.
The principle of photodynamic therapy (PDT) for rheumatoid arthritis consists in specifically concentrating a drug (photosensitizer) in the synovium.
Subsequent activation of the photosensitizer by means of a laser leads to a cytotoxic effect.
The practicability of PDT was tested in an animal model of IgG-induced arthritis in rabbits.
Photosan-3, 5-aminolevulinic acid and BPD-MA were administered intraarticularly or intravenously.
In this model, concentration of the photosensitizer in the synovial lining cells, the lymphoid infiltrate, and the skin was seen.
After laser irradiation a selective demarcation and destruction of the synovium by prior administration of Photosan-3, not constant by BPD-MA and without therapeutic effect by 5-aminolevulinic acid, was observed.
In contrast, bradytrophic tissues such as cartilage, meniscus, and ligament structures were changed neither macroscopically nor microscopically in all series.
PDT thus offers ideal preconditions for minimal invasive treatment of chronic inflammatory joint diseases because of its selectivity and efficacy.
Photodynamic laser therapy can be considered a new method in the surgical treatment of inflammatory disease of the synovial membrane.
The purpose of the study was to identify associations between drug prescriptions and the risk of falls in community-dwelling frail elderly people.
Enlargement of the prostate is an age-related, physiological process that is unique in human tissue.
The prostate gland is the most common site of neoplastic disorders in men.
Despite the growing impact of the various prostate diseases in terms of morbidity and mortality, the pathogenesis of benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH) and prostate cancer remains poorly understood.
This reflects the complex composition of the gland with different anatomic, cellular and functional compartments that are differentially involved in benign and malignant disease processes.
The present review summarizes new concepts on the morphogenesis of normal and abnormal growth in the human prostate.
There is increasing evidence that prostatic stem cells are located in the basal cell layer that is basically involved in normal growth and the development of glandular hyperplasia and prostate cancer.
High-grade prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia is considered the most likely precursor of clinically important cancer of the peripheral zone.
Severe differentiation and proliferation abnormalities occur during malignant transformation of the prostatic epithelium.
These premalignant changes are associated with abnormal expression of growth factor receptors, oncogene and suppressor gene products and genetic instability.
During the process of stromal invasion the transformed cells lose their basal cell phenotype and produce basement mem- brane-like matrices.
Common prostate cancer is mainly composed of exocrine cell types that remain androgen-responsive even in hormone-independent disease.
The frequent occurrence of neuroendocrine differentiation in common prostate cancer reflects the differentiation potency of its stem cells.
The endocrine phenotype derives from exocrine tumor cells via intermediate (amphicrine) cell types.
Neuroendocrine tumor cells consistently lack the nuclear androgen receptor and represent an androgen-insensitive cell population in prostate cancer.
Questionnaires were mailed anonymously to 150 German shock wave centers.
Twenty questions addressed the following areas of interest: - Facilities of the extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) center (technical, personnel, laboratory, etc.)
- Cooperation at ESWL center with referring urologists - Laboratory facilities versus actual metabolic work-up.
The return rate was 114 of 150 (76 %).
Surprisingly, at 58 % of the centers the average number of treatments is less than two per day.
In 30 % of the centers only chemical stone analysis is done!
The final conclusion was that ESWL has largely replaced the causal metabolic work-up and subsequent metaphylaxis as a symptomatic measure against urolithiasis.
Based on current insurance data patients with pseudophakia can be expected to suffer reduced stereoacuity.
A prospective study was carried out to test this relationship.
In 1970 Aulhorn and Harms made fundamental recommendations for the night driving ability of motorists as well as for the corresponding examination methods.
Reduced night driving ability of persons over the age of 60, as well the established limits for twilight vision and glare sensitivity, and their relevance to night-time collisions has been re-examined.
Hernias of the obturator foramen are rare.
They are described mostly in elderly female patients in poor health.
Often the correct diagnosis is stumbled upon as a result of surprising intraoperative findings.
Surgical therapy is indicated often by the clinical symptoms of an incarcerated hernia.
Herniation of the entire urinary bladder with hemorrhagic infarction has never been described before.
For an anatomical reduction of the hernia it was neccesary to resect the superior pubic ramus.
For plastic reconstruction a marlex mesh was used.
ACL reconstruction with patellar tendon graft has become a standard procedure.
The graft can be inserted either using two tunnels and a lateral femoral incision or with a femoral half tunnel drilled from the joint, thus avoiding the lateral incision.
Advantages of the single-incision technique in the early rehabilitation period have been claimed.
40 patients with ACL deficiency were included in a prospective randomized trial comparing single and two-incision technique with a follow-up period of 4 years.
Preoperative data did not show any significant difference between the two groups.
At follow-up no differences were observed with respect to complications or the progress of rehabilitation.
Evaluation after 1 and 4 years according to the IKDC form revealed good to excellent results in 70 % of all patients.
The Tegner-score increased significantly, however most patients did not regain their former activity level.
ACL-reconstruction reduced anterior translation of the knee significantly at 6 months follow-up.
However, we observed a slight increase of anterior translation after 1 and 4 years in both groups; stability was comparable in both groups at all time periods.
We conclude that an arthroscopic singleincision technique has no advantage compared to a mini-open two-incision technique for ACL reconstruction with patellar tendon graft in terms of subjective or objective parameters.
For determining the prevalence of multiple sclerosis (MS) in Germany, the outcomes of several epidemiological studies are available.
If these rates are transferred to Germany as a whole, figures result of 67,000 to 138,000 MS patients in all.
The differing prevalence rates may be caused by various problems in finding patients, the epidemiological area, and different population structures.
To avoid these difficulties, a new approach for calculating the number of patients with diagnosed MS was chosen based on representative samples taken from the groups of physicians involved in MS treatment.
The disadvantage of this approach is that it does not allow any questioning of the diagnosis.
Projecting the results in this way and their subsequent compilation - taking "double treatments" into consideration - showed a total of 122,000 patients with diagnosed multiple sclerosis in Germany.
This figure corresponds to a prevalence rate of 149.1 per 100,000 inhabitants and is within the range found by Poser et al.
[19]: 127 per 100,000 excluding the diagnostic category "possible multiple sclerosis" and 170 per 100,000 including it.
The chemical synthesis of alkyl glucuronides, which appear as metabolites in urine after the consumption of beverages containing congeners of ethanol, is described.
Glucuronides of the following alcohols were synthesized: methanol, d5-ethanol, propanol, isopropanol, butanol, isobutanol, R-(-)-2-butanol, S-(+)-2-butanol, isopentanol and S-(-)-2-methylbutanol.
The retention indices of acetyl, pentafluorpropyl (PFP) and trimethylsilyl (TMS) derivatives are given and discussed in relation to the chemical structures.
Mass spectra of homologous derivatives were shown to be very similar but some fragments were specific for the chain length of the alkyl moiety and can be used for identification and a quantitative estimation of glucuronides in urine samples.
Decreasing numbers of tuberculosis cases in the western countries have led to diminished attention towards this disease.
But worldwide, tuberculosis still is the leading cause of mortality due to any one single infectious agent.
In the industrialized countries, immigration, growth of low-income groups and increasing numbers of immunocompromised patients, mainly due to the HIV epidemic, supply a reservoir for tuberculosis.
Five efficient STR systems were investigated by automated laser fluorescence analysis on an A.L.F.
The system HumACTBP2 and the combinations of the systems HumVWA/FGA and HumTH01/D12S391 in duplex reactions were analysed.
DNA samples could be analysed with a high sensitivity (100 pg) and the results were reproducible.
No allele drop-out was observed.
Using specific allelic ladders, the inter and intra gel deviation was less than 0.5 bp.
The allele frequencies, the mean exclusion chance values and the discrimination power  for all five systems are shown.
The combination of the five systems resulted in a power of discrimination of 99.9999989%.
Few technological developments have impacted health sciences over the last years like the internet.
This comes at a time when electronic acquisition, storage and processing of medical data becomes commonplace in the so-called developed countries.
New forms of integrated medical services will eventually evolve from these two trends.
For information taken from many medical resources on the internet a relative lack of review processes requires special care and selection.
The co-operation of different health providers can be facilitated using technological standards initially established for other purposes.
This article is directed towards the gynecologist interested in practical use of the internet and its technologies and critically reviews the value of sample sites on the net.
The accompanying internet website lists relevant resources.
A calculation model was developed for the cost of stone therapy and metaphylaxis in Germany based on estimates of stone incidence, types and recurrence rates, actual costs for stone removal and metaphylaxis (based on data from a district of the social health care system).
There are 200,000 stone recurrences per year in Germany.
Cost for treatment of these stones amount to $687,000,000.
Stone metaphylaxis reduces the recurrence rate by some 40 %.
The annual cost for stone removal could be lowered by $275,300,000.
Metabolic evaluation/metaphylaxis amount to $70,100,000 per year, resulting in an net saving of $205,200,000.
In 1997, there were 96 days off-work per stone patient resulting in 5,800,000 days off-work in Germany per year.
Metaphylaxis in stone formers can lower health care cost significantly.
Although health care conditions may vary from country to country, in principle this calculation model is applicable also to other countries.
Consideration of estrogen replacement therapy is well established in the treatment of postmenopausal syndrome and osteoporosis in menopause.
Some observational epidemiologic studies on this topic have suggested beneficial effects on cardiovascular disease.
A prospective, controlled, randomized clinical trial with respect to cardiovascular events and mortality in postmenopausal hormone users, the HERS (Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement) study has recently been published.
Antiischemic effects of estrogens are mediated by improvement of menopausal-associated endothelial dysfunction, calcium antagonism, and activation of endothelial synthesis of prostacyclin.
Improvement in functional state and reduction of stress-induced myocardial ischemia with hormone replacement therapy (HRT) have been demonstrated in several clinical trials.
Inflammatory stimuli induce the expression of adhesion molecules on leukocytes and endothelial cells.
The adhesive forces between leukocytes and the vascular endothelium are antagonized by the shear stress of the flowing blood.
The aim of this study was to examine how differences in the apparent wall shear rate measured in iris venules with varying caliber affect leukocyte-endothelium interaction.
Radiologic means aid in assessment of the most suitable side for operation and allow the surgeon to be prepared for special situations in order to perform the operation without difficulties [22].
The most suitable modalities are CT and MRI preoperatively.
In uncomplicated cases, conventional imaging suffices for the postoperative needs.
CT should only be performed if the patient complains of symptoms.
Systemic immunotherapy, notably with interleukin-2 (IL-2) and interferon- (IFN), has yielded a response rate of 10 % to 30 % in metastic renal cell carcinoma.
However, systemic immunotherapy is limited by severe side effects, and long-lasting response is rare.
Tumor palliation and quality-of-life are important end points for evaluating the clinical benefits of immunotherapy.
Experimental and clinical treatment models have proved that local IL-2 application is less toxic than systemic treatment and is therapeutically effective.
Here we report long-term experience with inhalation IL-2 therapy in 188 patients who had progressive pulmonary metastatic renal cell carcinoma.
High-dose inhalation of IL-2 was used with low-dose systemic IL-2 or IFN.
Maximal toxicity over the total treatment time was mild, and the low incidence of WHO grade 3 toxicity (24 %) allowed social activities and peformance of social roles.
Comedication for systemic side effects was required only in half of the patients.
Inhaled IL-2 prevented progress of pulmonary metastases in 68 % of patients for a median period of 9.8 months.
Median survival was 12.4 months compared with the expected 5.3 months and quality-of-life did not differ substantially from pretreatment status.
Local treatment can be applied alone or in combination with systemic therapy and can increase therapeutic efficacy.
It is now well known that chronic alcohol abuse is an important factor for developing head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).
While hospitalized, these patients are at great risk for developing an unexpected alcohol-withdrawal syndrome.
Compared to common markers of alcohol abuse, carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT) has been found to be more sensitive and specific.
It is therefore very useful for detecting alcoholism and controlling compliance of alcohol withdrawal.
We analyzed the serum concentrations of CDT, liver enzymes and mean corpuscular volume in 49 male patients with HNSCC.
Elevated CDT levels were found in more than 25% of patients who earlier denied a history of chronic alcohol abuse.
Over one-third of these patients developed an alcohol-withdrawal syndrome.
These findings demonstrated that analysis of elevated CDT serum levels was a valuable method for detecting chronic alcohol abuse and recognizing patients at risk for developing an alcohol-withdrawal syndrome postoperatively.
Apoptosis, or programmed cell death, plays an essential role in specific cell deletion during normal embryonal and adult development.
Apoptotic cells are characterized by fragmentation of nuclear DNA and formation of apoptotic bodies.
Molecular genetic analysis has revealed the involvement of several deaths and survival genes that are regulated by extracellular and intracellular factors.
There are multiple inducers and inhibitors which interact with target cellspecific receptors and transduce signals involved in cellular proliferation, cell cycle progression and programmed cell death.
The elimination of tumor cell populations by applying lethal doses of chemotherapeutic agents or radiation is a well-established strategy in cancer therapy.
Although improved cytotoxic chemo- and radiotherapy regimens are available, the efficacy of these strategies is still disappointing with regard to many solid tumors.
Better understanding of the molecular mechanism of apoptosis, including death genes, death signals, receptors and signal transduction pathways, will provide new approaches in the development of strategies to regulate malignant cell survival and death.
Recent discoveries in the field of apoptotic cell death promise to have a significant impact on antitumor therapies.
Apoptosis is known to be an active process which can be artificially manipulated by several molecular pathways.
This information concerning the regulation and induction of programmed cell death might lead among otherthings, to the development of new powerful means to eliminate malignant cell populations of otherwise resistant genitourinary tumors such as prostate cancer.
We report on a 63-year-old female patient with Muir-Torre syndrome (MTS).
In the course of this disease two carcinomas of the colon, a kerato-acanthoma and multiple sebaceous gland tumours, including four sebaceous gland tumours, including four sebaceous carcinomas, appeared.
This case is thought to be a heriditary form as one of daughters was also found to have a sebaceous epithelioma.
MTS is a mostly autosomal-dominant disease with the association of sebaceous gland tumours and internal carcinomas.
As the malignant tumours only show slight aggressiveness the prognosis is quite favourable.
Oral isotretinoin therapy was successfully used for the inhibition of sebaceous gland proliferation.
A narrower definition is presented and an updated survey of the published cases is given.
Furthermore, the histopathologic peculiarities of sebaceous gland tumours, especially of sebaceous gland carcinomas, are discussed and compared to sebaceous gland tumours not connected with MTS.
A total number of 100 of the 135 published cases of MTS were included and analysed regarding sebaceous gland tumours and other skin tumours.
The data on internal carcinomas were taken from the work of Cohen et al.
(1991) and 11 current cases were added.
The rapid development of modern endovascular, microsurgical, and radiation therapies has considerably expanded the treatment options for encephalic arteriovenous malformations (AVMs).
Surgery has the longest history.
Single or staged intravascular procedures (embolizations) using fast-acting glues, sclerotic agents, and thrombogenic coils serve to reduce the size of AVM to that suitable for extirpation and may reduce the risk of surgery.
Radiation ("gamma-knife") therapy, most frequently used in small, non-operable AVMs, is also viewed by some authors as an alternative or even superior tool in small, operable malformations.
Partial embolization to reduce the mass-effect of space-occupying AVMs, to reverse diaschisis, and to treat AVM-related seizure disorders is being discussed and practiced.
Given the in part competing or even controversial options, the selection of optimal treatment for AVM patients is becoming increasingly difficult.
Current management is impeded by the paucity of information on the exact risks of invasive therapies and by insufficient criteria for identifying patients at risk of spontaneous bleeding during the natural course, including the seriousness of such hemorrhage.
A new "all in one" sensing device was developed for continuous transtracheal intraoperative monitoring and in situ detection of the recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) during thyroid surgery.
Patients and methods: The new system is based on a double-balloon endotracheal tube with integrated atraumatic stimulating and tracing electrodes.
The recurrent laryngeal nerve is stimulated transtracheally and compound action potentials are recorded from the laryngeal muscles.
Fifty-five patients were introduced into a phase-one clinical trial.
Thirty-five patients with primary thyroid operations, 20 patients with reoperations, 10 of whom had neck dissections.
All patients were evaluated laryngoscopically and phoniatrically by an ENT specialist before and after surgery.
Results: Compound muscle action potentials were recorded continuously during the whole operation and responded sensitively to tension and pressure to the nerve.
There were no accidental permanent RLN palsies.
Conclusion: The new system offers five advantages: (1) it is atraumatic; (2) it is easy to use; (3) it can monitor continuously with an audio feedback to the surgeon; (4) it works outside the operation field; and (5) it is highly sensitive, even indicating reversible irritation to the nerve.
The diagnosis of primary malignant bone tumors, which only account for 1% of malignancies in humans, represents quite a challange for the pathologist.
Apart from the often overlapping morphology between different entities, heterogeneity within one and the same tumor has to be kept in mind.
Furthermore, in most cases the diagnosis must be established based on small biopsy specimens and occasionally even on frozen sections.
In this context detailed clinical information including the patient's age and exact localization of the tumor, as depicted by X-ray or MRI, are essential requirements for a correct diagnosis.
In addition, multiple biopsies from different tumor sites may be of help.
For example, 25% of osteogenic sarcomas (OSA) are chondroplastic.
Others may contain areas similar to fibrosarcoma (FSA) or malignant fibrous histiocytoma (MFH).
Since 90% of OSA occur in the second decade of life whereas chondrosarcomas, FSA and MFH usually manifest after the age of 40 years, a biopsy solely composed of malignant chondromatous tissue obtained from a tibial lesion of a 10-year-old child should most likely be considered as part of an OSA.
In the differential diagnosis of the so-called small, round cell tumors, which include Ewing sarcoma, malignant lymphoma and small-cell OSA, immunohistochemical staining of the paraffin-embedded material and a molecular biological/genetic work-up of frozen material are most helpful.
In this paper the histomorphological characteristics and criteria for differential diagnosis of the most common primary malignant bone tumors are discussed.
The care of the patient after primary treatment is very important for both tumor control and patientsi compliance.
The aim of this care concept should be the early detection of local recurrences so as to have better secondary treatment (maybe cure) options.
If expensive diagnostics are needed to get this information, it is reasonable to order them.
If there is no benefit for the patient, regarding survival or with respect to quality of life, clinical anamnesis and examination should be preferred.
The effect on pain and heat sensation of monomere non-ionic contrast media with different osmolality was assessed in a randomized double-blind study.
Peripheral angiography was performed in 29 patients who suffered from chronic occlusive vessel disease.
The two non-ionic contrast media iomeprol and iopentol were applied intraindividually.
The contrast media with an iodine concentration of 350 mg/ml had an osmolality of 618 or 810 mosm/kg.
A contrast medium volume of 80 or 90 ml was injected in the abdominal aorta.
The mean flow was 13.9 ml/s.
The two contrast medium injections were separated by an interval of 10 min.
No analgesic premedication was given.
The pain and heat intensity was semiquantatively measured using a visual analogue scale ranging from 0 (no heat/pain) to 100 (intractable heat/pain).
The median after the first injection was calculated as 40 for iomeprol and 70 for iopentol.
The comparison of heat and pain sensations after the second injection showed a less distinct difference with a scale rating of 60 for iomeprol and of 65 for iopentol.
The statistical variance was highly significant (p < 0.01) in favor of iomeprol.
Shampooing is the most common form of hair treatment.
Shampoos have primarily been products aimed at cleansing the hair and scalp.
The diversity of qualities demanded from a good shampoo by today's consumer go far beyond this general function.
A cosmetic benefit is expected, and the shampoo formulation has to be tailored to all the possible variations associated with hair quality (dry, greasy, permed, bleached, dyed), age (baby shampoo), care habit (frequency of shampooing) and specific problems relating to the superficial condition of the scalp (dandruff, seborrhea).
Selected ingredients of shampoos that have been popular with the consumer are currently under attack because of potential risks associated with their use (e. g. halogenated organic compounds, formaldehyde, musk fragrances, and crude coal tar).
Our standard graduate training programs devote limited attention to  the subject of shampoos, and much of the readily available information concerning shampoos is supplied by the industry.
We should be increasingly aware that our patients look to us to supply independent information on what can be expected from a shampoo to enable them to make more informed choices at the consumer level.
In industrialized countries the rate of sudden cardiac death remains unchanged.
The most frequently encountered structural heart disease in these patients is coronary artery disease.
Despite the era of thrombolytic therapy of acute myocardial infarction patients carry an increased risk of sudden cardiac arrhythmogenic death within a time period of one to two years following the acute event.
Therefore, risk stratification post-MI before patient discharge is furthermore mandatory.
Dysphagia is related to the impairment of food passage from the mouth to the stomach.
Globus pharyngis implies the frequent and often painful sensation of a lump in the throat that usually does not interfere with swallowing and may even be relieved by food intake.
The diagnosis is based upon a careful history, clinical examination, endoscopy, dynamic imaging (videofluoroscopy, cinematography, videosonography) and electrophysiologic procedures (including pharyngoesophageal manometry, electromyography and pH determinations).
Structural lesions of the cervical spine such as diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis are rare causes of dysphagia.
Dysphagia following anterior cervical fusion as well as globus and dysphonia due to dysfunction of the vertebral joints are more likely.
Symptoms with swallowing fluids indicate a neurogenic origin.
Dyscoordinated swallowing, nasal reflux, dysphonia or general weakness may also occur.
Chronic aspiration with respiratory compromize is the main consequence in a variety of neurological disorders as well as in cases of postsurgical dysphagia.
Relaxation of the upper esophageal sphincter indicates coordinated muscle movement between the pharynx and esophagus.
Dysfunction of the pharyngoesophageal segment may lead to cricopharyngeal achalasia.
A dyskinetic sphincter commonly represents an extrapharyngeal cause: i.e., disease associated with gastroesophageal reflux.
Disorders of the esophageal phase of deglutition can produce retrosternal pain, heartburn, regurgitation and vomiting, as well as laryngeal and respiratory signs.
Esophageal motility disorders include lower achalasia, tumors, peptic strictures, inflammatory diseases, drug-induced ulcers, rings and webs.
Motility disorders present with aperistaltic, spontaneous contractions, diffuse esophagospasm, or a hypermotile esophagus.
Gastroesophageal reflux with esophagitis must always be excluded, especially in patients with a globus sensation.
The multiple features of the appearance of the symptoms of dysphagia and globus makes multidisciplinary approach necessary in order to establish a diagnosis and begin effective treatment.
Different pest arthropods and dermatophytes occurring primarily in farm animals may be transmissible to man and produce human dermatoses.
The movement and cutaneous penetration habits of external parasites often cause crusted papules, severe itching and dermatitis or may damage their hosts by blood-sucking or by sensitizing them to their saliva.
Furthermore different dermatophytes should be considered a possible cause of human skin lesions.
Farm animals (cattle, pig, poultry, and rabbit) can transmit external parasites (ticks: Ixodes ricinus, Argas reflexus; fleas: Ceratophyllus gallinae, Spilopsyllus cuniculi, and mites: Sarcoptes scabiei var.
bovis, Sarcoptes scabiei var.
suis, Dermanyssus gallinae, Cheyletiella parasitovorax), and dermatophytes (Trichophyton sp., and Microsporum sp.).
People who have close contact to infested farm animals are more often exposed to epizoonotic infections.
Certain professions, such as farmers, and veterinarians, are especially vulnerable.
Between 1992 and 1994 two multicentre studies were performed in order to determine the frequency of sensitization to gold salts.
In the first study (1992-1993), 872 patients were tested with gold sodium thiosulfate (NTS) 0.25% in Vaseline (V), 0.5% V. and with potassium dicyanoaurate (KDC) 0.002% aqueous solution.
44 patients (5.1%) had a positive patch test reaction to gold salts: 40 (4.6%) to NTS 0.5% V., 20 (2.3%) to NTS 0.25% V. and 5 (0.6%) to KDC.
A higher number of positive patch tests to gold salts was noted in patients also sensitized to another metal salt (8.5%) as compared to those who showed no other sensitivities (3.6%).
Immunologial complications frequently occur during the clinical course in patients with multiple injuries.
The increased release of pro-inflammatory mediators during the immunological response to trauma may lead to the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) and furthermore, to multisystem organ failure (MOF), which is associated with a mortality of up to 80%.
The development of multiple organ failure following major trauma is associated with remote organ failure, the dysfunction of organs which were not initially affected by the traum.
This manuscript reviews recent data in experimental trauma research and offers a more detailed evaluation of the immunological findings in trauma patients.
In particular, the role of pro- and anti-inflammatory cytokines in the development or SIRS, MOF and ROF is discussed.
Despite the enormous progress in clinical immunology and the available data on trauma-induced immune dysfunction, a large number of questions still remain to be answered before the immunological alterations following severe trauma can be beneficially influenced by immunomodulatory therapeutic efforts.
A report on two cases with benign tumors of the atrioventricular node (so-called mesothelioma of the av-node or endodermal inclusions of the heart).
In one of the cases the tumor could be the cause of the known electrophysiological disturbance of the conduction system (av-block) and of the sudden and unexpected death.
A case of delayed death after a low-voltage accident is presented.
At first, an obvious source of electricity was not found.
However, electric marks were found on the fingers.
The identification of the conductor was performed by analysis of the metallisation of the electric marks.
The location of the probable conductors in a boiler under the hand basin and the discovery in a standing position prior to collapse in a bathtub indicates that the capability to act was preserved for a short time period.
In such rare cases death seems to be a result of cardiac arrhythmia resulting in ventricular fibrillation.
A 53-year-old man presented a melanotic lung tumor which was based in the bronchus of the left lower lobe and closed the left main bronchus.
After laser therapy, left lobectomy with sleeve resection was carried out.
Complications after the surgery required resection of the rest of the left lung and thoracoplasty.
Based on the histological and immunohistochemical findings, the tumor was classified as a malignant melanoma.
There was no past history of an excision or a fulguration of a cutaneous, mucous membrane, or ocular lesion.
Examination of the skin and the eyes did not yield any evidence of another primary tumor.
We conclude that the lesion represents a primary malignant melanoma of the respiratory tract, a rare neoplasm of which only 21 cases have been confirmed.
The patient does not have any evidence of tumor in the relatively short follow-up period of 10 months.
Background: To find out the incidence of spontaneous pubertal development in girls with Turner syndrome we investigated patients with a bone age of at least eleven years.
Results: 6 out of 17 patients showed spontaneous puberty.
There exists no clear correlation between karyotype and phenotype on the one hand and incidence of spontaneous puberty on the other.
Basal as well as stimulated gonadotropin levels in the late childhood could better indicate spontaneous puberty in Turner syndrome.
Conclusion: In contrast to the generally held opinion spontaneous pubertal development is not rare in girls with Turner syndrome.
Therefore estrogen replacement therapy should be started only after it became certain that there will be no spontaneous puberty.
From January 1992 until April 1995, 31 patients with trans- and suprasphincteric anal fistulae (transsphincteric n = 21; suprasphincteric n = 4; transsphincteric in Crohn's disease n = 6) underwent a fistulectomy followed by closure of the internal opening by suture and anocutaneous flap.
All patients had undergone previous operations, some several times.
The recurrence rate of 13 % appeared to be low after a short follow-up.
Continence was only negligibly impaired, although the anal resting pressure and contraction pressure were significantly reduced.
In five patients a shortened prewarning period was noticed.
Also in Crohn's fistulae the results were equivalent when the surgical treatment was performed in a non-inflammatory period.
Staging of malignant tumours of the oral cavity and the oropharynx not only requires far more than a basic knowledge of anatomy and the usual pathways of spread, but also a broad understanding of the diagnostic benefits of current imaging modalities.
As radiology should never try to replace histology, the main aim should be precise prediction of tumour margins and differention of tumour from edema and posttherapeutic changes.
Only then will imaging studies have a significant clinical impact.
Post-traumatic recurrent dislocation is a major problem in the operative treatment of shoulder dysfunction in young athletes.
This prospectively designed study evaluates the long-term results of a modified Eden-Hybinette procedure in young male athletes.
The criteria were: capacity in sports, functional limit, and persistent pain.
Genuine disorders of the glenoid or muscular imbalance of the shoulder joint were criteria for exclusion.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a disorder which primarily affected the myocardium.
It is characterized by a hypertrophic left ventricle that shows normal systolic function but impaired diastolic relaxation.
The most important complication of HCM, sudden cardiac death, is mainly responsible for a mortality of approximately 3.5% in childhood.
While most patients remain asymptomatic for years, there are some reports about patients progressing from hypertrophic cardiomyopathy to a dilative form within years.
A prospective study was performed on 72 patients with osteochondritis dissecans (OD) of the knee and ankle to compare plane radiography, MRI and arthroscopy before therapeutic procedures.
Special interest was placed on the assessment of fragment stability with radiological methods for staging related therapy.
OD was localized in 46 cases on the femoral condyle and in 26 cases on the talus.
Radiological methods were performed simultaneously and shortly before definite arthroscopical therapy.
Using conventional radiography, OD of the condyles was staged according to the classification of Rodegerdts and Gleissner and OD of the talus suggested by Berndt and Harty.
MRI staging was performed by morphology of the interface of the OD.
Arthroscopical staging based on the classification of Guhl.
There was an excellent correlation between the stages in MRI and arthroscopy, showing correct prediction of stable and unstable fragments in 92%.
In contrast, fragment stability could not be efficiently assessed by conventional radiology because fragments could be stably fixed in cases of bony separation.
MRI is indicated before performance of staging-related therapy of OD to select patients with stable fragments for conservative therapy and those with unstable OD for surgical therapy.
A case of rupture of the right hemidiaphragm resulting from blunt trauma with complete intrathoracic dislocation of the right hepatic lobe in a multiple trauma patient is presented.
After a primary chest X-ray study had been interpreted as showing right-sided hemothorax, the thoracic drainage tube was accidentally placed into the liver.
CT revealed a diagnosis of diaphragmatic rupture with intrathoracic liver dislocation.
The liver was replaced and the extended dorsal diaphragmatic rupture was closed primarily via an abdominal approach.
Problems of diagnosis and operative procedure in rare cases of fresh right-sided blunt traumatic diaphragmatic ruptures are discussed.
